https://www.bbc.com/reel/video/p0gh711d/how-your-brain-can-rewire-to-fix-itself
How your brain can rewire to fix itself Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters How your brain can rewire to fix itself We used to think a brain's broken connections were irreparable. We now know that it can remarkably heal itself. How do we keep our brains healthy? And what can we do to help strengthen crucial connections and keep our minds younger in the process? In these four films, science journalist Melissa Hogenboom looks at the most cutting-edge scientific research and has her own brain scanned and analysed, with intriguing results. Part 4 of 4 dives into the cutting edge world of neurorehabilitation - how the brain can repair itself. A film by Melissa Hogenboom, Tom Heyden & Pierangelo Pirak 7 October 2023 Neuroscience Share Save Lilly Sabri talks after two year silence on social media The fitness influencer went silent after a story about her fiancee allegedly cheating went viral. 2 days ago World of Business Highly unlikely for tariffs to be ratcheted up, expert says David Waddell says markets have sniffed out that there are reasons to be less pessimistic in this environment. 2 days ago Opening Bell Week in Markets - 25 Apr 2025 A weekly summary of the big stories from financial markets around the world. 2 days ago World of Business Exploring the desert secrets of a lost Nabataean world An art critic uncovers mysteries from this ancient culture within Saudi Arabia's sandy landscape. 2 days ago Culture & Experiences The tech that can help you pick better perfumes Can AI help this BBC reporter simplify her perfume choices? 3 days ago Tech Now Watch rare Gobi bear's reaction to finding water So rare they were thought to be a myth and undertake arduous journeys of up to 100 miles to find water. 4 days ago Natural wonders The spectacle of a great Pelican feeding bonanza The dam at Marsh Lake, Minnesota, has created an unexpected opportunity for pelicans. 5 days ago Natural wonders The ancient history of Iceland's warring Viking families The Travel Show visits an immersive experience that brings to life a brutal battle between Iceland's Vikings. 6 days ago Adventures Yannick Nézet-Séguin: From child podigy to modern maestro The renowned conductor and music director of the Met Opera reveals how a calling became his lifelong journey. 6 days ago Arts in Motion Explore the tiny biodegradable pacemaker for newborns Researchers have created a pacemaker smaller than a grain of rice that does not require open surgery to implant. 18 Apr 2025 Innovation Why you might be younger than you think you are There is a difference between our chronological and biological age, which we have the power to control. 16 Apr 2025 Health Decoded Malaysian trade minister on US tariffs Malaysia's minister Zafrul Aziz will be representing the ASEAN bloc in its negotiations with the US. 16 Apr 2025 World of Business Ten striking images of an Earth scarred by humans From a shipwrecking yard in Bangladesh to a river of iron dioxide in Canada, a deep dive in Ed Burtynsky's work. 16 Apr 2025 Earth Up-close with giant river otters as they learn how to fish It takes three years for an otter cub to master the complexities of a successful hunt. 15 Apr 2025 World of wonder A historic look at the iconic VW campervan The Travel Show sets off on a journey to celebrate an instantly recognisable travel icon, the VW campervan. 14 Apr 2025 Adventures Week in Markets - 11 Apr 2025 A weekly summary of the big stories from financial markets around the world. 11 Apr 2025 World of Business Inside one of the world's most remote restaurants 'Off-Map Destination' winner Wolfgat offers a menu made from hyper-local and foraged ingredients. 11 Apr 2025 World's Table 'Economic uncertainty will lower investment' - 11 Apr 2025 Tech sector venture capitalist says the global economic uncertainty will mean less investment for private equity. 11 Apr 2025 Opening Bell The bitcoin miners in rural Zambia Tech Now visits Zambia to see how Bitcoin is helping to provide villagers with electricity. 11 Apr 2025 Tech Now 'One to one' with John Lennon and Yoko Ono BBC's Tom Brook explores never-before-seen footage and shares his personal connection with the new documentary. 10 Apr 2025 Film & TV British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.