https://edition.cnn.com/style/article/bode-emily-adams-bode-aujla-paris-fashion-week/index.html
Bode makes 20th century clothes for 21st century people | CNN CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video More Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Follow CNN Style World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Ad Feedback Bode makes 20th century clothes for 21st century people Nick Remsen , CNN 5 minute read Published
          1:48 AM EST, Tue January 24, 2023 Link Copied! Estrop/Getty Images Editor’s Note: CNN Style is one of the official media partners of Paris Fashion Week . See all coverage here . CNN — A few weeks ago, Mick Jagger posted a holiday message to his Instagram feed while wearing a deep red paisley shirt, its pattern whirling with canary yellow and inky black details. The piece had something nostalgically glamourous about it: Decadent yet comfortable, it was as befitting of Jagger’s bohemian rockstar aesthetic as it was his timeless presence. “Maybe he got it for Christmas,” joked Emily Adams Bode Aujla, creator of the garment and founder of its eponymous label, Bode, over a Zoom call from Paris. Related article Paris Fashion Week: Top moments from the menswear shows Since launching her New York City-based brand in 2016, Bode Aujla’s designs — often repurposed from meticulously-studied vintage garments — have been spotted on a range of celebrity tastemakers including Harry Styles, Jordan Peele, Bruno Mars, the Jonas Brothers and many more. “With his tour,” said Bode Aujla, “(Harry) was signed with Gucci, but he’s one of our most loyal Hollywood customers. He wore us a lot off stage. We’d wake up to paparazzi pictures.” In tandem, Bode has garnered a substantial base of fashion fanatics and style-savvy consumers around the world —all for clothes gravitating, she said, around a “sentimentality for the past.” Harry Styles wore a lacy Bode shirt while out with Olivia Wilde in New York City, 2022. Robert Kamau/GC Images These, for example, include: Colorful quilted workwear jackets, blousons with 1940’s-era Hungarian appliqués, lightweight chemises with reproduced prints from 1920’s-era French textile mills and whimsically hand-decorated corduroys (such as one seen on Styles in Vogue in December 2020). Much of what Bode sells is one-of-a-kind, with garments reimagined out of deadstock textiles and vintage garb. The rest features some sort of historical reproduction, down to what she calls “hyper-intentional” details such as buttons or seaming. Yet, while relatively down to earth in approach, Bode is in the luxury category when it comes to pricing. Currently, quilted jackets cost between $1,000 and $2,000. A pair of socks — two toned with embroidered flora — will set you back $250. “We speak to material and technique,” said the designer. “What we do really hones in on the idea of the preservation of craft. You wouldn’t necessarily think of the silhouettes as dated, but there are labor-intensive techniques we put into the clothes that are definitely from a different era.” Bode evokes emotion through the reworked vintage garments and historical reproductions of 20th century clothes. Victor Virgile/Gamma-Rapho/Getty Images An Emotional Connection Her clothing reverberates with deeply personal, emotional references: Much of her creativity is informed by an exploration of remembrance, family dynamics, and domestic settings — and how she has experienced each of these topics, largely across the Eastern US, over 32 years. Bode Aujla was born in Atlanta, and spent a significant portion of her childhood in Massachusetts (a former family home in Cape Cod, no longer in the picture, looms large in her memory bank). She had an interest in vintage clothing from a young age, and was deeply engaged with stories from the past told by her mother and her extended family. It’s visible in her creative output. For example, for her Spring 2018 lineup, Bode Aujla traveled to Peymeinade, France to meet with her uncle’s mother. The woman told Bode Aujla about the attic (le grenier in French) in her own childhood home. Bode Aujla was engrossed, and the room would inspire that season’s overall collection, which made use of toweling fabric, old duvets, and more. This is one of many such examples. Her designs are heavily influenced by her own life and family history. Victor Virgile/Gamma-Rapho/Getty Images Simultaneously, Bode Aujla’s work taps neatly into the current zeitgeist: A forerunner when it comes to ethically aware fashion design (upcycling, for example, is now far more common than when she started her label seven years ago), she also timed the trend-meter perfectly, though her clothes are not designed with trends in mind: Gen-Z’s sartorial aesthetic borrows heavily and markedly from decades past. Bode Aujla also has news for 2023: She just added womenswear to her label’s offerings, debuting the new designs alongside her latest Fall-Winter menswear collection at Paris Fashion Week on Saturday. Related article Everything you need to know about Kylie Jenner's lion's head outfit This new line included historical reproductions of 1920’s-era dresses and 1940’s-era gowns along with replications of 1970’s-era garments that Bode Aujla’s mom Janet kept and handed down. “This first official womenswear collection is about my mother and a really specific time during her youth in Massachusetts,” says the designer. “She had a job as part of a seasonal staff at a home in Cape Cod. The home was owned by an elderly woman who would dress in full eveningwear, every night, for dinner.” The label unveiled its first womenswear line at Paris Fashion Week. Estrop/Getty Images More bygone grandeur was seen with an all-over gold sequined coat, a champagne-hued simple bib-collared dress, lovely old-timey embroideries on cardigans and jacket lapels, and even a Western twang with fringed suede. It was an ambitious, decade-spanning concept. And it’s sure to broaden the Bode pool. While Bode Aujla has long mined personal experience and observation for inspiration, she recognizes that emotional connectivity–born by looking inward, and fueled by the power of family–is universal, regardless of her specific ancestral intimacy. This familiarity can be felt, in part, at her brick-and-mortar boutiques, one of which operates in New York City, the other in Los Angeles. They are studied and living room-like, with LA being a bit more academic, New York a bit more intimate. Retail is the second prong of Bode Aujla’s 2023 plan: She is aiming to open a third store, this time in the United Kingdom or in Europe. “We’ve experienced tremendous growth because of our retail stores,” said Bode Aujla. “I think a lot of people have become loyal to the brand because of how personal a lot of the clothes seem or feel to them once they’ve touched them.” Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Style Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.