https://english.ahram.org.eg/News/538989.aspx
Don't miss activities of "Focus on Lebanon" at the French Cultural Institute in Cairo and Alexandria - Lectures - Al-Ahram Weekly - Ahram Online Sunday, 27 April 2025 French | عربي Home Egypt Egypt  Home Politics Society Courts & Law Foreign Affairs Health Urban & Transport Defence Tourism War on Gaza Business Business  Home Economy Markets & Companies Energy Tech Opinion World World  Home Region International Africa War in Ukraine War in Sudan Arts & Culture Arts & Culture  Home Screens Music Visual Art Stage & Street Sports Sports  Home Egyptian Football Talents Abroad World National Teams Africa Omni sports Multimedia Life & Style Life & Style  Home Style Health Food City Lights Antiquities Antiquities  Home Ancient Egypt Greco-Roman Coptic Islamic Museums Books Books  Home Reviews News Heritage Heritage  Home Walks Folk Arts Heritage special Photo Heritage Inspiring Minds Multimedia Al-Ahram Weekly Al-Ahram Weekly  Home Egypt Economy World Opinion Culture Limelight Heritage Features Focus Living Sufra Dayma Entre nous Autos Travel Interviews Special Nakba remembered Art Cinema Exhibitions Lectures Theater Music and dance Sports COP27 Don't miss activities of "Focus on Lebanon" at the French Cultural Institute in Cairo and Alexandria Reham El-Adawi , Tuesday 21 Jan 2025 Hala Moughanie Diwan Majarrah Mall, Sheikh Zayed Wed 29, 6pm: Diwan starts a new book club at its newest branch. This month, its reading Lucy Foley 's The Guest List , the number one Sunday Times bestseller, an exciting whodunit you will not be able to put down! So get your copy and get ready to join us for our first book club discussion in Zayed. 159, 26 th of July St, Zamalek, Tel 01222 40 7084 Thurs 30, 6pm: Based on the readers' votes, the book When the Body Says No written by Gabor Maté has been chosen to be discussed in January's Book Club. French Cultural Institute Madrasset Al-Huquq Al Frinseya St, Mounira, Tel 02 2791 5800 Fri 24, 3pm: Part of "Focus on Lebanon" illustrated and musical reading "Pauline and Marco", followed by the performance "L'ab Zghar" by Tania Saleh (theatre hall). Meeting with writer Hala Moughanie , who is based in Beirut and works as an independent consultant and is actively involved in cultural, political, and associative circles. An award-winning playwright, her works including The Sea is My Nation (ArtCena Prize 2018), and Memento Mori (2019). In 2022, she received the Théâtre de la Colline/Actes Sud Prize and published her first novel, We Must Return (2023). Her works explore systems of violence and domination, weaving memory and territories through an inventive language where words and imagination challenge our political and poetic ties to the world (6.30pm, library). It will be followed by a dance evening with Radio Karantina / Nasri Sayegh Junior (9pm, institute courtyard). Sun 26, 6.30pm: "Dusk - Selections - Contemporary Lebanese Women Poets" a literary meeting, edited and presented by Nada Ghosn and Paulina Spikhovitch (library). Tues 26, 6pm: "The Taste of Books" a meeting with Ons Trabelsi about her book Sidy Molière which means Molière in Arabic. The dialogue is moderated by Randa Sabry , Professor of French Literature and Literary Criticism at Cairo University, and Salma Mubarak , Professor of Comparative Literature at Cairo University and Director of the Amon Network for Researchers in the Fields of Literature and Cinema. Trabelsi is a lecturer at the University of Lorraine, Department of Arts, Literature and Languages/Centre for Studies and Research University, France. Her research deals with modern and contemporary Arab theatre, its history, and development, especially in Egypt and Tunisia. She is also an actress. El Sawy Culturewheel End of 26th of July St, underneath the 15th of May Bridge, Zamalek, Tel 2736 8881/6178/2737 4448 River Hall Mon 27, 8pm: Poetry recital by the rising poet Ibrahim Farag . ALEXANDRIA French Cultural Institute 30 Al-Nabi Danial St, Mahatet Misr, Alexandria, Tel 03 3913435/3918952 Sun 26, 12.30pm: Part of "Focus on Lebanon", illustrated and musical reading of “Pauline and Marco”, followed by the performance of “L’ab Zghar” by Tania Saleh (Massignon Hall). Opening of the “Ras Beirut” exhibition by Mohamed El - Masry (6pm, first floor). Encounter with writer Hala Moughanie (6.30pm, Massignon Hall). * A version of this article appears in print in the 23 January, 2025 edition of Al-Ahram Weekly Follow us on: Facebook Instagram Whatsapp Short link: Latest News CAF U20 Africa Cup of Nations fixtures (1st round, group stage) Live score: Egypt v South Africa (CAF U-20 Africa Cup of Nations) Egyptian film Life After Siham to screen at Cannes parallel section ACID Italy Serie A fixtures & results (34th matchday) Egyptian actresses May El-Ghety, May Calamawy join cast of new US production..... Egyptian-Norwegian artist Britt Boutros Ghali exhibits works in Berlin, Seoul Book Review: Pope Francis – the man who listened before he preached Efforts for restoring Gaza ceasefire should be intensified: El-Sisi to Hungarian..... All eyes turn to conclave as Pope Francis tomb opens to public Peruvian actors with Down syndrome tear down barriers in London's  show Most Viewed A massive explosion at Iranian port kills 8, injures around 750 China development contributes to world peace: Experts at Chinese Modernization..... Egyptian Players Abroad: Abdelmonem helps Nice win, Sam Morsy plays but Ipswich..... Egypt’s annual unemployment rate drops to 6.6 percent in 2024: CAPMAS Palestinian president Abbas appoints aide as potential successor English Premier League results & fixtures (34th matchday) Match facts: Newcastle United v Ipswich Town (English Premier League) Koller’s future at Ahly in doubt after Champions League exit Israel's 60-day blockade: Palestinians struggling to feed their families Israeli strike kills 10 including 5 children amid efforts to resume Gaza ceasefire Also In Lectures ​Don’t miss Omar Taher’s book discussion and signing ceremony at Diwan Zamalek ​Don’t miss a seminar remembers poet Salah Jahin at Amir Taz Palace Don’t miss Italian Archaeology Prof. Cristina Mondin lecture on the International Day of Monuments and Sites Don’t miss "Entertainment in Middle East History: The Serious Business of Leisure and Fun" history seminar at TCC ​Don’t miss "Entertainment in Middle East History: The Serious Business of Leisure and Fun" history seminar at TCC ​Join a seminar on global gold market by Islam Helmy at El Sawy Culturewheel and an inspiring talk with Menna El-Shiati at AUC Join Reham Elmorally's personal journey through gender, history and public policy at AUC Don't miss Concordia University History Professor Wilson Jacob's lecture at AUC Egypt War on Gaza Business Opinion World Arts & Culture Sports Life & Style Antiquities Books Heritage Multimedia Al-Ahram Weekly Work For Us About us © 2020 All Rights Reserved Ahram Online.