https://www.cnn.com/2025/04/05/business/tariffs-trump-baseline/index.html
Buying foreign? That’ll now cost Americans a lot more | CNN Business CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Business Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos More Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos Follow CNN Business World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Markets DOW S&P 500 NASDAQ Hot Stocks Fear & Greed Index ----- is driving the US market Latest Market News Tariffs and stock market volatility are clouding spring home shopping season Millennials are giving Gen Z advice for their first potential recession How Trump’s 145% China tariffs could crush American small businesses: ‘There’s no facility here that makes what we need’ Hot Stocks ----- is driving the US market Something isn't loading properly. Please check back later. Ad Feedback Buying foreign? That’ll now cost Americans a lot more By David Goldman , CNN 4 minute read Published
          12:01 AM EDT, Sat April 5, 2025 Link Copied! Follow: Tariffs See your latest updates Video Ad Feedback Your questions about tariffs, answered 02:21 - Source: CNN Your questions about tariffs, answered 02:21 CNN — America has a brand new tax on virtually every item that comes over its border: 10%. The universal tariff went into effect Saturday at 12:01 a.m. ET after President Donald Trump signed an executive order earlier in the week requiring a baseline tax for all imports. The announcement sparked an outcry from America’s trading partners — allies and foes alike — along with American businesses, investors and consumers. Economists fear the tariffs — the highest America has imposed in a century — will plunge the United States and the world into a recession. Markets have tumbled, and China’s tariff retaliation Friday launched a full-blown trade war. And Trump isn’t done. On Wednesday, America will impose significantly higher “reciprocal” tariffs on a number of countries that have the highest trade imbalances with the United States. Trump has also put in place tariffs on autos, steel and aluminum. He placed 25% tariffs on certain goods from Canada and Mexico. Tariffs on auto parts are set to go into effect no later than May. And Trump has also threatened tariffs on lumber, pharmaceuticals, copper and microchips, among other products. What Trump wants from tariffs Trump has treated tariffs as a kind of panacea : an economic magic wand he can wave to restore America’s manufacturing prowess, bring foreign nations to heel on key disputes, restore the balance of trade and bring in gobs of money that can help pay off the US deficit and reduce Americans’ tax burdens. Economists largely agree that tariffs can help fulfill many if not all of those promises: When used effectively, tariffs can help boost production at home by making foreign goods more expensive. Revenue raised by tariffs could help offset some of its deficits. And many Americans who voted for Trump are hopeful for a change. Despite an economy that has fully recovered from the pandemic — on paper, at least — many people feel left out. Free-trade agreements have in some instances accelerated factory shutdowns, leading to ghost towns and the deterioration of many blue-collar jobs. But Trump’s tariffs seek to remake the global economy in one fell swoop. They aim to bring back a long-gone era of booming factories that companies are hesitant to restore, even if it means paying a higher tax to import goods. Trump promises a return to the golden age of factory work. Trump’s tariffs, if he doesn’t negotiate them lower, could inflict more harm to the US economy than the countries he is targeting – and in the process sink the economy into a painful recession. There’s another potential problem with Trump’s plan: Tariffs can’t achieve all of his goals at the same time. Trump’s aims are often contradictory. For example, if tariffs are a pressure campaign, they have to go away once the countries acquiesce — which means there will be no tariffs to restore the trade balance. If tariffs are designed to promote America’s manufacturing sector, they can’t also raise revenue to offset deficits. If Americans switch to made-in-the-USA goods, then who pays the tariff on foreign products? Inflation and recession threat The tariffs — including the taxes Trump has imposed, plans to levy and has threatened — could raise prices significantly for American consumers. That’s because importers pay the tariffs, not the countries exporting the goods that Trump has been targeting. Companies that import the goods typically pass along all or some of that cost to wholesalers, retailers and, ultimately, consumers. Although some retailers with strong supply chain controls may eat some of the cost, others will be unable to take such a hit. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell on Friday acknowledged that Trump’s tariffs, which were significantly more aggressive than the central bank had expected, would drive prices higher and slow down the economy. Powell said the Fed wasn’t in a rush to act but was monitoring the effect tariffs have on the economy. Other economists were far less sanguine. The nonpartisan Tax Foundation said the average American household will pay $2,100 a year more for goods because of the significant universal and reciprocal tariffs Trump announced Wednesday. It said America’s average import tax will surge to 19% this year from 2.5% last year — the highest rate since the Smoot-Hawley era in 1933. Fitch Ratings said the rate would rise even higher, sending America’s effective tariff rate to its highest level in more than a century. As a result, Americans’ after-tax incomes will decline 2.1% on average this year, the Tax Foundation said. JPMorgan analysts noted Wednesday that the tariffs would hike taxes on Americans by $660 billion a year — the largest tax increase (by a longshot) in recent memory. It will cause prices to surge, too, adding 2% to the Consumer Price Index, a measure of US inflation that has struggled to come back down to earth in recent years. If Trump maintains the massive tariffs he announced Wednesday, his unprecedented trade policies will probably cause both the US and global economies to fall into a recession in 2025, JPMorgan analysts said. Related Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback CNN Business Videos CNN Video This week’s Middle East business news: From Trump’s Gulf tour to mega energy deals 1:55 Apr 25, 2025 CNN Video The ‘life-saving’ gift that Beyoncé’s grandmother passed down to her 3:21 Apr 25, 2025 CNN Video He bought gold at Costco. He’s not cashing in yet 1:58 Apr 25, 2025 Clipped From Video Video Opportunities abound for some in Swiss watchmaking 3:37 Apr 25, 2025 Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Business Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Business Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in real time, except for the S&P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes. All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor’s and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.