https://www.apple.com/ie/
Apple (Ireland) Apple Apple Store Mac iPad iPhone Watch AirPods TV & Home Entertainment Accessories Support 0 + iPhone Meet the iPhone 16 family. Learn more Shop iPhone Built for Apple In­telli­gence. Apple Intelligence available now 1 Apple Watch Series 10 Thinstant classic. Learn more Buy MacBook Air Sky blue colour. Sky high performance with M4. Learn more Buy Built for Apple In­telli­gence. Apple Intelligence available now 1 iPad Air Now supercharged by the M3 chip. Learn more Buy Built for Apple Intelligence. Apple Intelligence available now 1 AirPods Pro 2 Now with a Hearing Aid feature. 2 Learn more Buy AirPods 4 Iconic. Now supersonic. Available with Active Noise Cancellation. 3 Learn more Buy iPad Pro Unbelievably thin. Incredibly powerful. Learn more Buy Built for Apple Intelligence. Apple Intelligence available now 1 MacBook Pro A work of smart. Learn more Buy Built for Apple Intelligence. Apple Intelligence available now 1 Apple Trade In Get credit when you trade in iPhone 12 or higher. Get credit when you trade in iPhone 12 or higher. 4 Get your estimate Apple TV+ Apple Footer 1. Apple In­telli­gence is available in beta on all iPhone 16 models, iPhone 15 Pro, iPhone 15 Pro Max, iPad mini (A17 Pro), and iPad and Mac models with M1 and later, with Siri and device language set to Chinese (Simplified), English (Australia, Canada, India, Ireland, New Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, UK or US), French, German, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese (Brazil) or Spanish, as part of an iOS 18, iPadOS 18 and macOS Sequoia software update, with more languages coming over the course of the year, including Vietnamese. Some features may not be available in all regions or languages. 2. The Hearing Aid feature has received marketing authorisation from global health authorities. The Hearing Test and Hearing Aid features are supported on AirPods Pro 2 with the latest firmware paired with a compatible iPhone or iPad with iOS 18 or iPadOS 18 and later, and are intended for people 18 years old or older. The Hearing Aid feature will also be supported on a compatible Mac with macOS Sequoia and later. It is intended for people with perceived mild to moderate hearing loss. Hearing Health features are subject to change. Some features may not be available in all regions or all languages. View complete list . 3. Available in two models: AirPods 4 and AirPods 4 with Active Noise Cancellation. 4. Trade-in values will vary based on the condition, year and configuration of your trade-in device. You must be at least 18 years old to be eligible to trade in for credit or for an Apple Gift Card. Not all devices are eligible for credit. More details are available from Apple’s trade-in partner for trade-in and recycling of eligible devices. Restrictions and limitations may apply. Payments are based on the received device matching the description you provided when your estimate was made. Apple reserves the right to refuse or limit the quantity of any device for any reason. A subscription is required for Apple TV+. Features are subject to change. Some features, applications and services may not be available in all regions or all languages. Shop and Learn Shop and Learn Store Mac iPad iPhone Watch AirPods TV & Home AirTag Accessories Gift Cards Apple Wallet Apple Wallet Apple Pay Account Account Manage Your Apple Account Apple Store Account iCloud.com Entertainment Entertainment Apple One Apple TV+ Apple Music Apple Arcade Apple Fitness+ App Store Apple Store Apple Store Apple Store App Certified Refurbished Apple Trade In Order Status Shopping Help For Business For Business Apple and Business Shop for Business For Education For Education Apple and Education Shop for University Apple Values Apple Values Accessibility Environment Privacy Supply Chain About Apple About Apple Newsroom Apple Leadership Career Opportunities Warranty Investors Ethics & Compliance European Job Creation Contact Apple More ways to shop: find a retailer near you. Or call 1800 92 38 98 . Ireland Copyright ©
				
				2025
				 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Use of Cookies Terms of Use Sales and Refunds Legal Site Map