https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.learnyland.HumanBody
How does The Human Body Work? - Apps on Google Play Games Apps Books Kids google_logo Play Games Apps Books Kids none search help_outline Sign in with Google play_apps Library & devices payment Payments & subscriptions reviews My Play activity redeem Offers Play Pass Personalization in Play settings Settings Privacy Policy • Terms of Service Games Apps Books Kids play_arrow Trailer How does The Human Body Work? Learny Land In-app purchases 4.2 star 1.61K reviews 500K+ Downloads Rated for 3+ info Install Share Add to wishlist play_arrow Trailer About this app arrow_forward Explore the human body and discover how your organs and muscles work. Play and learn as you watch the heart pump blood, where the food we eat passes or why a mosquito bite hurts us. With How does the Human Body Work? you can play and learn freely, with no pressure or stress. Play, observe, ask questions and find the answers. Have fun controlling your character, feeding him and cutting his nails. Enter our machine and watch how the blood platelets plug the wounds, how the muscles contract to kick a balloon or how a baby grows inside its mother. Learn about anatomy and concentrate on healthy habits, watch how the lungs get sick if we breathe a lot of smoke, how running and exercise is good for your health and how the human body is healthier and stronger if you eat a balanced diet. We only have one body, let's take care of it! This Human Body app for kids is full of science and stem education. Play and learn about biology and anatomy. Discover the human boy part names, bones, muscles and facts. With 9 incredible interactive scenes learning anatomy has never been easier: Circulatory system Zoom into the heart and see how it pumps blood. Discover white blood cells, platelets and red blood cells, and see how they work to make your body healthy. Respiratory System Watch your character inhale as see how the air goes to the lungs, bronchi and alveoli. Play by controlling your character and seeing how the rhythm of his breathing changes. Urogenital system Kids learn what the kidneys and bladder do. Interact with their character and help clean the blood and make him pee. Digestive system What path does the food follow from its entry into the human body until the waste comes out? Feed the character and help him absorb the nutrients and dispose of the waste. Nervous System Observe how the nerves of the whole body are activated and how the senses work: sight, smell, hearing... and also learn about the brain and its various parts. Skeletal System In this system, you'll learn the names of the bones and how the skeleton is made up of many bones, how they give us mobility and allow us to walk, jump, run... and how your bones are responsible for generating the blood of our body. Muscular System Learn how your body contracts and relaxes the muscles to help us move, protect us and learn the names of the most important muscles. You can turn your character around and see that we have other muscles on the other side! The Skin Discover how the skin protects us and how it responds to cold and heat. Watch how the hairs grow, clean the sweat of your character and play by cutting its nails and painting them. Pregnancy Take care of the pregnant woman, take her blood pressure, do an ultrasound and observe how a baby is forming inside her. This science and stem app is suitable for kids of all ages, starting at 4 years old, that are interested in anatomy and biology. LEARNY LAND At Learny Land, we love to play, and we believe that games must form part of the educational and growth stage of all children; because to play is to discover, explore, learn and have fun. Our educational games help children learn about the world around them and are designed with love. Read more about us at www.learnyland.com. Privacy Policy We take Privacy very seriously. We do not collect or share personal information about your children or allow any type of third party ads. To learn more, please read our privacy policy at www.learnyland.com. Contact us We'd love to know your opinion and your suggestions. Please, write to info@learnyland.com. Updated on Apr 2, 2025 Education Play Pass Data safety arrow_forward Safety starts with understanding how developers collect and share your data. Data privacy and security practices may vary based on your use, region, and age. The developer provided this information and may update it over time. No data shared with third parties Learn more about how developers declare sharing This app may collect these data types Personal info and Financial info Data is encrypted in transit You can request that data be deleted Committed to follow the Play Families Policy See details Ratings and reviews Ratings and reviews are verified info_outline arrow_forward Ratings and reviews are verified info_outline phone_android Phone laptop Chromebook tablet_android Tablet 4.1 1.33K reviews 5 4 3 2 1 James Fowler more_vert Flag inappropriate March 30, 2025 I thought I was going to like it but instantly it asked for money. I don't get why people have to add subscriptions to get money when they have other ways to. I'm okay with subscriptions as long as they don't force you to buy it and if they make it time limited (like ixl). 15 people found this review helpful Did you find this helpful? Yes No knew New more_vert Flag inappropriate August 3, 2022 I really wanted such app and I finally found it. GOOD app but not the BEST app. 1⃣no proper tutorial "how to use it? 2⃣all inside menu details aren't useful enough (best👉 respiratory system, circulatory system) (not best👉 muscular system) 3⃣very few details are available. like SKIN menu has more than dozen names but we can zoom in at only two names 4⃣ Pregnancy menu could have been better😥 IF THIS IS A KID VERSION THEN WE WANT BIG VERSION TOO😬🙏🙏🙏 144 people found this review helpful Did you find this helpful? Yes No John-Paul Murphy more_vert Flag inappropriate August 18, 2021 Great! Daughter loves it! Got some bugs, though. Sometimes when zooming out, body fails to render. Other times, zoom locks up and I must switch organs to get zoom working again. But great job, this is really neat! 276 people found this review helpful Did you find this helpful? Yes No See all reviews What’s new Fixing some minor bugs. flag Flag as inappropriate App support expand_more public Website email Support email info@learnyland.com shield Privacy Policy About the developer Planet Factory Interactive S.L. support@learnyland.com CALLE COS 20
08650 SALLENT
Spain +34 620 38 77 33 More by Learny Land arrow_forward The Animals: Animal Kids Games Learny Land 4.0 star Make It - Create & play games Learny Land 4.1 star My Green City Learny Land What’s in The Oceans? Learny Land 2.7 star What's in Space? Learny Land What Were Dinosaurs Like? Learny Land 4.0 star Similar apps arrow_forward Women Who Changed the World Learny Land 4.7 star How It Works? Learny Land Charge the Robot Learny Land 3.6 star Kids Height Increase Exercises Battery Stats Saver 4.7 star Kidjo Games: Kids Play & Learn Kidjo 3.4 star Four-stroke Otto engine 3D Mozaik Education 4.6 star flag Flag as inappropriate Google Play Play Pass Play Points Gift cards Redeem Refund policy Kids & family Parent Guide Family sharing Terms of Service Privacy About Google Play Developers Google Store All prices include VAT. Egypt (English)