https://english.ahram.org.eg/News/479869.aspx
Saudi’s green committments   - COP27 - Al-Ahram Weekly - Ahram Online Sunday, 27 April 2025 French | عربي Home Egypt Egypt  Home Politics Society Courts & Law Foreign Affairs Health Urban & Transport Defence Tourism War on Gaza Business Business  Home Economy Markets & Companies Energy Tech Opinion World World  Home Region International Africa War in Ukraine War in Sudan Arts & Culture Arts & Culture  Home Screens Music Visual Art Stage & Street Sports Sports  Home Egyptian Football Talents Abroad World National Teams Africa Omni sports Multimedia Life & Style Life & Style  Home Style Health Food City Lights Antiquities Antiquities  Home Ancient Egypt Greco-Roman Coptic Islamic Museums Books Books  Home Reviews News Heritage Heritage  Home Walks Folk Arts Heritage special Photo Heritage Inspiring Minds Multimedia Al-Ahram Weekly Al-Ahram Weekly  Home Egypt Economy World Opinion Culture Limelight Heritage Features Focus Living Sufra Dayma Entre nous Autos Travel Interviews Special Nakba remembered Art Cinema Exhibitions Lectures Theater Music and dance Sports COP27 Saudi’s green committments Mahmoud Badr , Thursday 17 Nov 2022 From reducing carbon emissions to preserving biodiversity and protecting endangered species, Saudi Arabia is working on multiple fronts to mitigate the effects of climate change The Saudi Green Initiative (SGI) Exhibition at COP27 in Egypt s Sharm el-Sheikh. Courtesy of the SPA On 11-12 November, the second editions of the Middle East Green Initiative and Saudi Green Initiative Forum were launched with the arrival of Saudi Prince Crown Mohamed bin Salman to the Saudi pavilion in the Green Zone in Sharm El-Sheikh. The Saudi pavilion is the biggest at COP27, comprising two tents hosting 28 exhibitors, representing governmental and non-governmental entities and civil society. Visitors to the pavilion can explore multiple initiatives that Saudi Arabia is implementing across the kingdom, from the world’s largest clean hydrogen factory in Neom to successful animal rehabilitation programmes. On his arrival in Sharm El-Sheikh, Bin Salman reviewed Saudi efforts in the field of climate change, green and smart projects, the safe disposal of waste and preserving biodiversity. Through the Middle East Green Initiative, Saudi Arabia is attempting to increase the region’s ability to protect the planet by drawing an ambitious roadmap to achieve global goals. Among the initiatives kickstarted to adapt to climate change, promote sustainable development and preserve the environment are the establishment of a regional centre for climate change, a centre for facing dust storms, and a cloud seeding programme. The Middle East Green Initiative is testimony to Saudi Arabia’s commitment to international sustainability efforts. The initiative supports coordination efforts between the kingdom and its regional and international partners towards sharing knowledge and exchanging experience for the sake of reducing carbon emissions on a global scale and to launch the largest tree planting programme in the world. Bin Salman hosted the first round of the Middle East Green Initiative summit in Riyadh on 25 October 2021. The summit helped effect the first regional dialogue about climate. It was agreed the summit be convened periodically to draw up plans to achieve the goals of the Middle East Green Initiative by reducing carbon emissions by more than 10 per cent and decreasing harmful emissions resulting from petroleum production in the region by more than 60 per cent. The initiative aims to pump 39 billion riyals into the Clean Fuel Initiative and the Regional Investment Fund to finance technical solutions for the circular carbon economy. The Saudi Green Initiative aims to plant 10 billion trees throughout the kingdom in the coming decades, increase protectorates to 30 per cent of the total regions in Saudi Arabia and reduce carbon emissions by 278 million tons annually by 2030. These goals are in line with the regionally determined contribution of planting 50 billion trees. The kingdom currently has 13 renewable energy projects worth $9 billion in the pipeline, Saudi Energy Minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman told Al-Arabiya satellite channel. The projects include a 11.3 GW green hydrogen plant — one of the world’s largest — and will help reduce annual carbon emissions by 20 million tons and contribute to Saudi Arabia’s plan to increase the contribution of renewable energy in its power generation mix to 50 per cent by 2030. Efforts of the Saudi non-profit Baa Foundation were also presented in Sharm El-Sheikh. The foundation works on increasing awareness about, and finding solutions to, climate change. Baa is working on a programme to revive coral reefs in the Red Sea. The Saudi pavilion displayed healthy, colourful corals, others that have grown white due to climate change, and reefs that have died due to increased levels of calcium. Baa Foundation, together with the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology and other partners, are taking small parts of lively coral reefs and planting them in controlled environments until they are fully grown and transported back to the sea. This is one effective means to face the effect of climate change on biodiversity. The foundation also launched the Ras Baridi Marine Turtle Conservation Initiative on the Red Sea coast. A six km beach in the Ras Baridi area was turned into a nature reserve. The beach is divided into rookeries where turtles lay their eggs — each female lays about 120 eggs — and returns back to sea. Around 60 days later, the baby turtles begin their journey towards the ocean. It is a journey fraught with danger and not all babies make it to the water. This is where Baa Foundation comes in, protecting the youngsters from animal attacks to help them survive. *A version of this article appears in print in the 17 November, 2022 edition of Al-Ahram Weekly. Follow us on: Facebook Instagram Whatsapp Short link: Latest News CAF U20 Africa Cup of Nations fixtures (1st round, group stage) Live score: Egypt v South Africa (CAF U-20 Africa Cup of Nations) Egyptian film Life After Siham to screen at Cannes parallel section ACID Italy Serie A fixtures & results (34th matchday) Egyptian actresses May El-Ghety, May Calamawy join cast of new US production..... Egyptian-Norwegian artist Britt Boutros Ghali exhibits works in Berlin, Seoul Book Review: Pope Francis – the man who listened before he preached Efforts for restoring Gaza ceasefire should be intensified: El-Sisi to Hungarian..... All eyes turn to conclave as Pope Francis tomb opens to public Peruvian actors with Down syndrome tear down barriers in London's  show Most Viewed A massive explosion at Iranian port kills 8, injures around 750 China development contributes to world peace: Experts at Chinese Modernization..... Egyptian Players Abroad: Abdelmonem helps Nice win, Sam Morsy plays but Ipswich..... Egypt’s annual unemployment rate drops to 6.6 percent in 2024: CAPMAS Palestinian president Abbas appoints aide as potential successor English Premier League results & fixtures (34th matchday) Match facts: Newcastle United v Ipswich Town (English Premier League) Koller’s future at Ahly in doubt after Champions League exit Israel's 60-day blockade: Palestinians struggling to feed their families Israeli strike kills 10 including 5 children amid efforts to resume Gaza ceasefire Also In COP27 Collecting solar energy Hot air World Cup  in numbers Key outcomes After COP27 An overwhelming virus Africa and climate change Modern Egypt — (VIII) The visionary pope Egypt War on Gaza Business Opinion World Arts & Culture Sports Life & Style Antiquities Books Heritage Multimedia Al-Ahram Weekly Work For Us About us © 2020 All Rights Reserved Ahram Online.