https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-england-cornwall-66042825
Cornish boy performs at Glastonbury days after GCSEs Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Cornish boy performs at Glastonbury days after GCSEs A 16-year-old boy is reflecting on the "biggest opportunity" of his life after performing at Glastonbury, days after finishing his GCSE exams. Oscar Brown, from St Ives, Cornwall, played his own songs at the legendary festival after his mother sent a demo to the person in charge of the Mandala stage. "I was buzzing," Oscar told BBC Cornwall reporter Tamsin Melville. "I was trying to get the crowd going with me and for some songs they did and that was really nice." Oscar is now looking forward to appearing at Boardmasters near Newquay in August. 28 June 2023 St Ives Glastonbury Festival Music Share Save Night vision camera captures beaver breaking wind Wildlife experts say the animal could have been attempting to mark its territory. 5 hrs ago Cornwall Watch: Prince William plays volleyball on Newquay beach The Prince of Wales is visiting a beach in Cornwall to meet members of local lifesaving clubs. 9 May 2024 Cornwall Amazing automata fascinate museum visitors The Marvellous Mechanical Museum comes to a museum in Truro, blending art, science and engineering. 9 Apr 2024 Cornwall Murderer held after falling down from attic Jake Hill was hiding in a loft after murdering a man outside a nightclub when the hatch door opened. 14 Mar 2024 Cornwall Injured seal pups released after rehabilitation The hungry and injured pups were flown to Sussex for rehab and have been released. 11 Jan 2024 Cornwall Big wave surfer back after near-death wipeout Tom Lowe is now facing some of the biggest waves on the planet. 22 Dec 2023 Cornwall 'You may not see it but I have a lot to deal with' As a BBC Young Reporter, Ella, 14, shares her experience of spina bifida. 4 Dec 2023 Cornwall Crowds gather to see stunning starling murmuration The phenomenon happens when groups of starlings come together to swoop and swirl across the sky. 2 Dec 2023 Cornwall Water rescue dogs looking for training lake The Newfoundlands need a distraction-free area to be trained in water safety measures. 26 Aug 2023 Cornwall Seal group urges beachgoers to ditch flying rings The plastic rings can get caught round the necks of seals with serious consequences say campaigners. 25 Aug 2023 Cornwall Gran, 101, becomes 'oldest person to fly on stage' Kate, from Camborne in Cornwall, takes to the skies after being nominated by her granddaughter. 16 Aug 2023 Cornwall Cobbler is shoe-in for social media stardom Joey Cope, from Cornwall, was taught by his grandad and will take on any shoe. 13 Jul 2023 Cornwall On board HMS Richmond for Armed Forces Day The Plymouth-based anti-submarine warship was in Cornwall for the UK's Armed Forces Day event. 25 Jun 2023 Cornwall Funnel cloud spotted in Cornwall A BBC meteorologist describes it as a "baby tornado beginning to form but never quite getting there". 21 Jun 2023 Cornwall Thousands of poppies create annual spectacle Summer brings the fields around Crantock alive with an annual carpet of poppies. 16 Jun 2023 Cornwall Heavy storms cause flash flooding across Devon Witnesses reported "torrential" rain in Devon, with walls of water appearing following a deluge. 10 May 2023 Cornwall Big wave surfer seriously injured in 'brutal' fall He had internal bleeding, six broken ribs and feared he might not make it to hospital alive. 4 May 2023 Cornwall 'What's better than releasing seal pups?' Three seals nurtured back to health are released back into the sea in Cornwall. 21 Apr 2023 Cornwall Huge waves pound the Cornwall coast Cape Cornwall in West Cornwall on Wednesday when huge waves battered the coast. 13 Apr 2023 Cornwall How slot car racing eases man's autism Ian Ward learned his childhood love of slot car racing could help in adult life. 4 Apr 2023 Cornwall British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.