https://edition.cnn.com/travel/uk-eta-visa-travel-2025/index.html
ETA visa: Everything you need to know about the UK’s new rules for visitors | CNN CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Destinations Food & Drink News Stay Video More Destinations Food & Drink News Stay Video Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Destinations Food & Drink News Stay Video Follow CNN Travel World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Ad Feedback EU citizens must now apply and pay a fee to enter the UK By Julia Buckley , CNN 4 minute read Updated
          12:44 PM EDT, Wed April 2, 2025 Link Copied! Travelers from EU countries who don't need a visa to enter the UK will need to complete pre-travel authorization from April 2. James Manning/PA Wire Editor’s note: Sign up for Unlocking the World, CNN Travel’s weekly newsletter . Get news about destinations, plus the latest in aviation, food and drink, and where to stay. Summary European Union citizens must now apply and pay for Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA) to enter the United Kingdom. The ETA requirement, similar to the US ESTA, began for other travelers earlier this year. The application costs £10 ($12.50) currently but will increase to £16 ($20) on April 9. ETAs remain valid for two years with multiple entries and are required even for transit passengers. Applications take about 20 minutes and decisions typically come within three days. This summary was AI-generated and reviewed by CNN editors. CNN — As of April 2, European Union citizens join travelers from 48 countries around the world now required to have Electronic Travel Authorisation to enter the UK. Previously, travelers from the EU could hop on a plane and simply present themselves at passport control on landing. Now, travelers who don’t need a visa to enter the UK must get pre-travel authorization via the new digital registration scheme. Here’s what to know about the new rules. Who needs an ETA? Anyone who doesn’t need a visa to travel to the UK will need an ETA — an “electronic travel authorization” which pre-clears you for entry to the country before travel. This is the UK equivalent of the United States’ ESTA — a mandatory, paid-for authorization to travel, with security clearance done in advance. The scheme debuted to Gulf Cooperation Council nationals in 2024, and was later rolled out to other non-European travelers — including the six million travelers from the US, Canada and Australia who enter the UK each year. The full list of 48 states requiring the ETA is here . Travelers from these countries have been required to have an ETA to enter the UK since January 8. EU citizens will need an ETA to enter the UK from April 2, 2025. Citizens of these countries who are already resident in the UK do not need an ETA. The scheme is for “short” visits to the UK of less than six months for tourism and business. There are a few other categories of ETA, including for short-term study and permitted paid engagements. These are listed on the UK government website . Is it a visa? Although some people are referring to it as a visa, it’s actually a visa waiver. Travelers whose citizenship means they need a visa to enter the UK will still need to apply for a visa. (They won’t, however, need to get the ETA on top of that.) Countries work on reciprocity when it comes to immigration. When the United States introduced its ESTA visa waiver in 2009, it was inevitable that countries now subject to it would introduce their own similar schemes. Stay in Paris and you'll pay up to $5.50 per person per night in city tax. Alexander Spatari/Moment RF/Getty Images Related article Europe delays travel entry charges until 2025 How do I get one? The cost is currently a non-refundable £10 (just under $12.50), and you can apply through the official app listed on the UK government website , or directly online . The fee will increase to £16 (around $20) on April 9 . The apps — for iPhone and Android — boast of being quicker, with 10-minute processing times. Be sure to apply through official channels, rather than through third-party websites, which may charge extra fees, and are less likely to handle your data securely. You will need to upload a photo of your passport, scan and photograph yourself as you apply, upload the photo, and answer various questions about your plans. Applying online takes around 20 minutes and you must complete the process in one go — there is no chance to save as you go. A decision will normally be given within three days, though the government warns it could take longer. You are allowed to travel to the UK while waiting for your decision, if you need to visit urgently; however you must have made the application before you travel. Note that having an ETA doesn’t guarantee entry to the UK. You must still go through passport control and Border Force officials still have the final say over whether you can enter the country. How long will it be valid? Validity lasts for two years and multiple entries — so you can visit as often as you please. However, note that it will be digitally linked to your passport — so if you get a new passport during those two years, it will no longer be valid and you must apply for a new one. Even passengers transiting through the UK at the likes of Heathrow Airport will need an ETA. Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg/Getty Images Can families get a joint ETA? Everyone entering the UK needs their own ETA, including children and even babies. But you can apply on somebody else’s behalf. Does this mean I can stay as long as I like? The ETA is only intended for short stays of up to six months. I’m just transiting through the UK. Do I still need the ETA? Everyone entering UK soil, even for a quick onward connection, must have an ETA. (This is the same for any travelers transiting through the US, who need an ESTA.) You will not be allowed through passport control to the transit area without one. Does this cover me to enter Europe, too? At some point, to enter Europe, you’ll need an ETIAS — the EU travel waiver, which has been much delayed but is currently slated to start in late 2026. Stay tuned for details as the countdown approaches. Correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the start date of the ETIAS requirement. Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Travel Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.