https://edition.cnn.com/2025/04/18/style/ralph-lauren-fall-2025-show/index.html
Anne Hathaway, Michelle Williams among A-listers at Ralph Lauren show | CNN CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video More Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Follow CNN Style World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Ad Feedback Style Fashion • 3 min read Anne Hathaway, Michelle Williams among A-listers at Ralph Lauren show By Nick Remsen, CNN 3 minute read Published
          8:57 AM EDT, Fri April 18, 2025 Link Copied! Anne Hathaway, Michelle Williams and Naomi Watts at the Ralph Lauren's fall 2025 show in New York. Lexie Moreland/WWD/Getty Images New York CNN — In the borderlands between New York City’s Tribeca and Financial District, Ralph Lauren — the man whose name is synonymous with a certain well-heeled, sporty, and nostalgic vein of American style — staged his latest runway show on Thursday. Among the crowd were Anne Hathaway, Condé Nast’s Anna Wintour, “Stranger Things” star Sadie Sink, and Sarah Catherine Hook, riding high off her turn in the recently concluded “The White Lotus,” season 3. (Hook was overheard saying that the first thing her character, Piper Ratliff, wears in the show is, as it happens, a Ralph Lauren dress.) Actors Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Michelle Williams, Naomi Watts, Ariana Debose, and Eiza Gonzalez were also in attendance. Models Anok Yai, Mona Tougaard and Vivienne Rohner walk the runway in dark, bohemian looks. Dia Dipasupil/Getty Images Lauren’s chosen venue — Jack Shainman Gallery — echoed golden age Gotham, with its marble columns, towering windows, and coffered ceilings. Here, Lauren’s fall 2025 womenswear designs glimmered with the spirit of family heirlooms in the making: a collection meant to last the ages and, importantly, to appeal to all ages. Speaking to CNN ahead of the show, Lauren explained that the collection, titled “The Modern Romantics”, was “a celebration of individual style and timeless sophistication,” with “each piece reflect(ing) the confidence of a woman who defines style on her own terms.” Ralph Lauren's fall 2025 show was titled "The Modern Romantics"... Evan Agostini/Invision/AP ... and featured eclectic styles including outerwear that fused leather with brushed suede. Dia Dipasupil/Getty Images The result was a mash-up of Ralph Lauren signatures that felt broodier, a little more bohemian, and, in that, perhaps a touch more eclectic. See the Victorian or Edwardian collars beneath barn jackets, outerwear that juxtaposed finished leather and brushed suede (these were excellent), leather bustiers styled with riding boots, and frilly dresses with dark floral prints (instead of Lauren’s usual palette of off-white, cream and equine brown). The finale gown with a mermaid tail bonded by lace insets marked one of the most experimental looks the designer has shown in recent memory. A constant presence While Ralph Lauren’s sales rose 11 per cent in the three months ending December 28, 2024 to $2.1 billion, prompting the company to raise the outlook for its 2025 full-year fiscal revenue, no brand is immune to the world’s mounting geopolitical challenges. The luxury sector is grappling with some of its slowest growth in years, as well as US President Trump’s quickly evolving tariff plans, which threaten to drive up clothing prices. Ralph Lauren's fall 2025 show took place in the Jack Shainman Gallery, founded in 1984. Evan Agostini/Invision/AP Over a phone call with CNN a few days before the show, Patrice Louvet, CEO and president of Ralph Lauren Corporation, acknowledged the “relatively volatile” environment. Emphasizing Ralph Lauren’s resilience, he noted that throughout 2024 the brand “saw strong responses across generations.” Louvet has been focused on maintaining a constant presence in customers’ lives by translating the well-developed Ralph Lauren ethos — one of good-life Americana — into experiences that can be enjoyed by a greater number of people. Younger age groups, he noted, are a focus. Ralph’s Coffee, which has outposts in over 35 locations including New York, London, Beijing, Doha and Tokyo, reaches 4 million people a year, according to Louvet. “The population that’s consuming Ralph’s is disproportionately younger consumers,” he added. These patrons are likely drawn by the cafés’ Instagram-friendly feel, with its preppy green-striped branding and playful merchandise, including oversized stuffed animal Polo bears in situ, which make for great pictures. Customers sit in the outdoor area of Ralph's Coffee in Beijing, China. Tingshu Wang/Reuters Sports have also been key in broadening Ralph Lauren’s cultural relevance. The brand regularly invests in sponsorships and partnerships that range from baseball activations in Japan to support for tennis and golf via the US Open, Wimbledon and the Ryder Cup. It will also be a title sponsor at the upcoming Winter Olympics in Milan and Cortina, Italy, as it was at the 2024 Summer Games in Paris, France. “We’re making sure we engage with the younger generation while continuing to delight and surprise our 30-year-olds, our 50-year-olds, our 80-year-olds,” said Louvet. “It’s one of the challenges (we constantly pose) to our marketing team.” Consistency is key, he believes. “(Other brands) kind of have moments, and then (they) go quiet. And then there’s another moment, a show, or something with an influencer, and then it’s quiet again,” said Louvet. “Our philosophy is ‘no, we have to always be on.’” Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Style Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.