https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.happytools.learning.kids.games
Bebi: Baby Games for 2-4y kids - Apps on Google Play Games Apps Books Kids google_logo Play Games Apps Books Kids none search help_outline Sign in with Google play_apps Library & devices payment Payments & subscriptions reviews My Play activity redeem Offers Play Pass Personalization in Play settings Settings Privacy Policy • Terms of Service Games Apps Books Kids play_arrow Trailer Bebi: Baby Games for 2-4y kids Bebi Family: preschool learning games for kids In-app purchases 4.4 star 228K reviews 10M+ Downloads Rated for 3+ info Install Share Add to wishlist play_arrow Trailer About this game arrow_forward Empower your preschool toddler to learn and have fun playing 500+ educational games , from drawing, coloring and phonics to math, shapes and music .  With Baby Games for Preschool by Bebi, you can support and encourage your toddler to learn unsupervised while having a fun in a 100% ad free , safe environment. Baby Games for Preschool keeps your toddler occupied and away from video streaming apps by offering 500+ different educational activities, puzzles and games .  It’s free to install, so why not download today and start enriching your toddler’s education? What can 2,3,4 or even 5 year olds learn? ►The alphabet, phonics, numbers, words, tracing, shapes, patterns and colors ► Basic math and science through games and activities ► How to recognise and look after animals ► All about food and healthy eating ► Music, instruments and singing ► Art skills through coloring, drawing and doodling ► Problem solving, dexterity and much, much more… For Pre-K kids, play is an integral part of their development. Toddlers enjoy playing  casual games, but Baby Games for Preschool encourages them to learn and absorb valuable information through interactivity and fun. Similarly, learning from books and papers is not easy at a kindergarten or preschool age. Let your toddler relax with fun and educational games: their absorbent brain will soak up all the new knowledge on its own, allowing you as a parent to relax safe in the knowledge that their screen time is positive and rewarding. Once you notice that your toddler is engaged playing our educational games, you will see that the learning process has begun. Whether its popping balloons, discovering science, developing the inner artist or simply learning songs through music, you might even find yourself enjoying a few of the app’s games and activities. Why Baby Games for Preschool? ► Our 500+ learning games provide a safe and useful device experience for your 2-4 year old toddler ► Developed and tested by child development experts ► Designed for safety and convenience with no supervision needed ► Parental Gate - code protected sections so that your child doesn’t accidentally change settings or make unwanted purchases ► All settings and outbound links are protected and only accessible for adults ► Available offline and playable without an internet connection ► Timely hints so your child doesn't feel frustrated or lost in the app ► 100 % Ad free with no annoying interruptions Who says learning can't be fun? Please support us by writing reviews if you like the app and let us know about any issue or suggestions too. This toddler games app has dozens of free games without ads Updated on Apr 16, 2025 #4 top grossing educational Educational Mathematics Single player Stylized Cartoon Miscellaneous Puzzles Modern Offline Data safety arrow_forward Safety starts with understanding how developers collect and share your data. Data privacy and security practices may vary based on your use, region, and age. The developer provided this information and may update it over time. This app may share these data types with third parties Device or other IDs This app may collect these data types App activity, App info and performance, and Device or other IDs Data is encrypted in transit You can request that data be deleted Committed to follow the Play Families Policy See details Ratings and reviews Ratings and reviews are verified info_outline arrow_forward Ratings and reviews are verified info_outline phone_android Phone laptop Chromebook tablet_android Tablet 4.4 184K reviews 5 4 3 2 1 Phelix Estinvil more_vert Flag inappropriate February 11, 2025 this has been a great learning tool for my little one! it's been great for learning how to count, how to organize/group things, how to complete a puzzle, and also really good for teaching her how to navigate a UI (scrolling, tapping, swiping things away). 39 people found this review helpful Did you find this helpful? Yes No Bebi Family: preschool learning games for kids February 12, 2025 Hello! Thanks so much for the awesome review. We are glad to hear you love our toddler learning games for your little one. Your input and feedback help us improve our games and delight children with new content. Have a wonderful learning experience. Arkisha Zeinn more_vert Flag inappropriate April 22, 2025 Good day! I was charged April 21, 2025 with an amount of 3,050.00 in Philippines Peso. I cancelled the subscription immediately April 21,2025 However I was shocked as it got deducted automatically in my e-wallet without asking for confirmation. I had no intention of purchasing an annual subscription with Bebi. Baby Games 2-4 as I am not using the app nor will use in the future. I had already filed a complaint with Google Play but they failed to give me a refund. If ever that you will deny me of Did you find this helpful? Yes No Hollie Johanson more_vert Flag inappropriate April 14, 2025 I wish you could unlock other areas of the game without paying or pay once for the app and have it all unlocked. Kids games centered on learning should be free. 1 person found this review helpful Did you find this helpful? Yes No Bebi Family: preschool learning games for kids April 14, 2025 Hello! Our app offers free content available to everyone, so you can always enjoy those without a subscription. The subscription provides access to a growing collection of educational and fun games for your kids, with regular updates and new or improved features. We also offer a free trial so you can explore the premium content before committing. See all reviews What’s new Let your little artists unleash creativity in Coloring World! Celebrate World Art Day with a special collection of vibrant, fun, and educational coloring games. Kids will color, draw, play, and learn using brushes, crayons, and more! Add stickers, recreate from references, and display their art. With simple controls, it's the perfect intro to art for young creators!. flag Flag as inappropriate App support expand_more public Website email Support email info@bebi.family shield Privacy Policy About the developer Bebi Family Games OU info@bebi.family Sakala tn 7-2
10141 Tallinn
Estonia +1 929-774-6123 More by Bebi Family: preschool learning games for kids arrow_forward Toy Phone Baby Learning games Bebi Family: preschool learning games for kids 3.6 star Baby Games for 1-3 Year Olds Bebi Family: preschool learning games for kids 4.7 star Coloring games for kids: 2-5 y Bebi Family: preschool learning games for kids 4.4 star Baby Puzzle Games for Toddlers Bebi Family: preschool learning games for kids 4.6 star Learning Games for Toddlers Bebi Family: preschool learning games for kids 4.4 star Baby Piano, Drums, Xylo & more Bebi Family: preschool learning games for kids 3.0 star Similar games arrow_forward Balloon Pop Kids Learning Game Bebi Family: preschool learning games for kids 4.7 star Learning Games for Toddlers Bebi Family: preschool learning games for kids 4.4 star Learning games for toddlers 2+ Mini Muffin 4.1 star Baby Games: 2+ kids, toddlers Bebi Family: preschool learning games for kids 4.6 star Easy games for kids 2,3,4 year Kakadoo 4.1 star Baby Games for 2-5 Year Olds Timpy Games For Kids, Toddlers & Baby 4.2 star flag Flag as inappropriate Google Play Play Pass Play Points Gift cards Redeem Refund policy Kids & family Parent Guide Family sharing Terms of Service Privacy About Google Play Developers Google Store All prices include VAT. Egypt (English)