https://edition.cnn.com/2025/04/12/asia/philippines-duterte-drug-war-icc-hope-intl-hnk-dst/index.html
Duterte drug war: For grieving families in the Philippines, the ICC might be their only hope | CNN CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom More Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Follow CNN US Crime + Justice World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Watch Live TV CNN Headlines CNN Shorts Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules FlashDocs Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Subscribe Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Ad Feedback World Asia • 7 min read Portraits of victims of former Philippine president Rodrigo Duterte's war on drugs displayed during a mass service on the day former President Rodrigo Duterte was arrested in Manila on March 11, 2025. Ted Aljibe/AFP/Getty Images For the families still grieving Duterte’s brutal drug war, the ICC might be their only hope By Kathleen Magramo and Jinky Jorgio , CNN 7 minute read Updated
          12:24 PM EDT, Sat April 12, 2025 Link Copied! Editor’s Note: This article contains graphic images and descriptions. CNN — Christine Pascual’s phone started buzzing while she was at work in a hair salon with messages saying former Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte was about to be arrested. “I started crying, both out of relief and sorrow, the entire day and all through the night,” Pascual told CNN. The news brought memories of her late son Joshua Pascual Laxamana flooding back. Laxamana, a 17-year-old with dreams of becoming an online gamer, went missing in August 2018 on his way home from a gaming tournament in the northern Philippines. “His friends who went with him said they were short on money, so they split ways,” his mother recalled. With no word from him in days, she started her own search for her son. “I started looking for him at every computer shop around our area, thinking he was close to home.” This picture shows Christine Pascual’s son, Joshua Pascual Laxamana, who was killed in August 2018 on his way home from a gaming tournament in the northern Philippines. Christine Pascual A week later, a letter from the police arrived. It said her son was dead. She was taken to the morgue and greeted by a sight she had never imagined; her son’s body pierced by six gunshots and covered in bruises. “When he was young, I’d worried about him being bitten by flies,” she said. There is another image she will never forget; a photograph the police showed her of Laxamana’s lifeless body on the street where he was gunned down. She remembers his eyes were still wide open. Pascual said the officers told her he was killed because “he tried to fight back.” According to a Philippine Inquirer report, Rosales Municipal Police claimed Laxamana was on a motorbike, ignored a police checkpoint, then fired at officers. “They accused him of horrible, unimaginable things,” said Pascual – who denies her son was a drug dealer and said he didn’t know how to ride a motorbike. Pascual is determined to seek justice. With the help of NGOs, she requested a second autopsy and raised money for his funeral. She has also recounted her testimony at senate hearings and public investigations and continues to work with human rights groups to gather evidence for her son. She even took a case to the Philippines Supreme Court, but it was dismissed. “We will fight wherever justice takes us…,” she said, “It’s been hard for me to accept my son died without any explanation. He was accused of something and was killed just like that…I hope that can change in this country,” she said. Pascual is not alone. Former Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte is seen on a screen in the courtroom of the International Criminal Court with his lawyer Salvador Medialdea seated left, in The Hague, Netherlands, on March 14, 2025. Peter Dejong/Reuters A long-awaited arrest Duterte’s court appearance in the International Criminal Court (ICC) last month is “a sight families of the thousands of victims of the ‘war on drugs’ in the Philippines feared they would never see,” said Amnesty International’s Southeast Asia Researcher Rachel Chhoa-Howard. “The very institution that former President Duterte mocked will now try him for murder…is a symbolic moment and a day of hope for families of victims and human rights defenders who have for years fought tirelessly for justice despite grave risks to their lives and safety.” It shows that those accused of committing the worst crimes “may one day face their day in court, regardless of their position,” Chhoa-Howard added. Duterte ran the Philippines for six turbulent years, during which he oversaw a brutal crackdown on drugs and openly threatened critics with death. In his inaugural address in 2016, he claimed there were 3.7 million “drug addicts” in the Philippines and said he would “have to slaughter these idiots for destroying my country.” The figure was more than twice the number of active drug users reported in a 2015 Philippines Dangerous Drug board (DDB) study, which said 1.8 million people – just under 2% of the population – were using drugs. By 2019, three years into the ‘war of drugs’, the DDB survey estimated 1.6 million people were taking dangerous drugs in the Philippines – an 11% decrease from 2015. Among many Filipinos, Duterte’s drug war – and his bombastic disregard for the country’s political elites – remained popular for much of his time in office. But the collateral damage caused by so many extrajudicial deaths also mounted. A woman clutches the body of her husband after armed assailants shot him on July 23, 2016 in Manila, Philippines. The victim was an alleged drug peddler. His wife maintained her husband was nothing more than a pedicab driver. Dondi Tawatao/Getty Images An alleged drug dealer and victim of a extrajudicial execution is examined by police on July 8, 2016 in Manila, Philippines. Dondi Tawatao/Getty Images Many of the victims were young men from impoverished shanty towns, shot by police and rogue gunmen as part of a campaign to target alleged dealers. According to police data, 6,000 people were killed – but rights groups say the death toll could be as high as 30,000, with innocents and bystanders often caught in the crossfire. Duterte’s tough approach on drugs prompted strong criticism from opposition lawmakers who launched a probe into the killings. Duterte in turn jailed his fiercest opponent and accused some news media and rights activists as traitors and conspirators. His blood-soaked presidency ended in 2022 but, three years on, hundreds, if not thousands, of extrajudicial killings have not been accounted for. Victims’ families are often spooked or threatened not to pursue their case in local courts, leaving hundreds in limbo with little to no due process in the Philippines. To date, only eight policemen had been convicted for five drug war deaths, according to court documents. The threat of being held to account in the ICC has been hanging over Duterte’s for almost a decade. Prosecutors first said they were watching what was happening in the Philippines in 2016, but it wasn’t until 2021 that a formal investigation was launched. For years, Duterte – along with his loyal allies and fierce supporters – argued that allegations of wrongdoing should be dealt with by the Philippine justice system, saying the involvement of foreign courts would impede the country’s judicial independence and sovereignty. A list of names of drug war victims in the hands of Flavie Villanueva, a Catholic priest who has been helping orphans and widows of the drug war, in a memorial at the La Loma Catholic Cemetery on December 11, 2023 in Caloocan, Metro Manila, Philippines. Ezra Acayan/Getty Images/File As president, he even withdrew the Philippines from the ICC - which took effect in March 2019. That, however, proved to be no protection; the ICC still has jurisdiction for crimes alleged during the years the nation was a member. Last week, Duterte went from boasting about killing drug dealers to being arrested for crimes against humanity as the ICC finally caught up with him. In a dramatic arrest, the 80-year-old was outnumbered by local police when he returned to Manila from Hong Kong. After being detained for hours at an airbase, he was put on a plane bound for the Netherlands to face the ICC on charges of crimes against humanity – alleged to have been committed between 2011 and 2019. On Thursday (March 14), Duterte made his first appearance via video link at The Hague where he appeared tired and slightly uneasy. His defense lawyer, Salvador Medialdea, called the arrest a “pure and simple kidnapping.” During the hearing, Presiding Judge Iulia Motoc read Duterte his rights and set September 23 as the date for a hearing to determine whether the evidence presented by the prosecution would be sufficient to take the case to trial. Family members of the Drug War victims watch the livestream of the initial appearance of former Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte at the ICC for his alleged crimes against humanity, inside a church in Quezon City, Manila, Philippines, on March 14, 2025. Daniel Ceng/Anadolu/Getty Images Left without closure Thousands of lives have been upended by the drug war killings. They not only left devastated parents to bury their children but also left dozens of children as orphans. Eya was just 9-years-old when both her parents were shot by hooded, uniformed policemen at around three in the morning in August 2016. Now 18, she and her sister work at a coffee shop in Manila run by families of victims. Eya, who requested to go by a pseudonym for safety, told CNN she was shocked when Duterte was finally arrested. ”I hope justice will be given to us. And others responsible for the thousands of those who died will also get arrested.” Eya told CNN she hopes other police officials and officers involved in the bloody crackdown would one day also be held accountable. Cresalie Agosto was at work when her 16-year-old daughter called her in on December 1, 2016 with shocking news. ”Ma, dad has been shot. Please come back,” she heard her daughter say. Agosto rushed home. Nearby, police had cordoned off an area surrounding her husband’s body. “It was true. I saw my husband with gunshot wounds on his head, stomach and foot,” she told CNN. Matches and a small sachet containing a white power were found on the ground near him, items Agosto says she’d never seen her husband carry around. Urn of Ritchie Reyes, the husband of Cresalie Agosto. Cresalie M. Agosto Witnesses told her they saw two motorbikes each carrying two masked men carrying big, long guns, looking for a man named “Roy”. They asked her husband, Richie Reyes, if he was “Roy”. She was told that he said he was not the man they were looking for, but they shot him anyway. “There’s nothing more that we want other than justice and accountability,” Agosto said. “When Duterte was arrested upon arrival his rights were still read aloud to him. For us, our loved ones were greeted with bullets with no explanation.” Luzviminda Siapo was away from home as migrant worker in Kuwait when tragic news that her 19-year-old son, Raymart, was killed by police in 2017. Her son was born with clubfoot deformities – a condition which can affect mobility. A witness who was sleeping in a parked jeepney in an alley told Siapo they heard police yell at Raymart to run away. “No, I cannot run. I don’t want to run,” Raymart cried out, according to the witness.  A gunshot was then heard. Luzviminda said she wants to see Duterte “rot in jail” for her son’s death. “He may be in jail, but he is alive unlike my son who died and is no longer with us. I cannot hug him anymore nor talk to him.” Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch US Crime + Justice World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Watch Live TV CNN Headlines CNN Shorts Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules FlashDocs Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Subscribe Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN World Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Subscribe Newsletters Transcripts Help Center © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.