https://www.bbc.com/audio/brand/m00238q2
BBC Audio | Inside Murder Trial Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Save Share Inside Murder Trial Extraordinary courtroom access takes listeners uniquely inside real-life unfolding murder trials. Journalist Jane MacSorley and advocate Thomas Ross KC unpack each days events. Save Share Episodes (11 available) A Deadly Affair Introducing... Inside Murder Trial A Deadly Affair Introducing... Inside Murder Trial As a 46-year-old cold case goes to trial to discover who killed Renee and Andrew MacRae? 13 Sept 2024 • 2 mins Save A Deadly Affair 1. Well Ablaze A Deadly Affair 1. Well Ablaze Day one of this extraordinary trial at which you have a front row seat in the courtroom. 20 Sept 2024 • 31 mins Save A Deadly Affair 2. A Perfect Place to Hide a Body A Deadly Affair 2. A Perfect Place to Hide a Body Renee’s estranged husband testifies. The accused, MacDowell, was his employee. 20 Sept 2024 • 36 mins Save A Deadly Affair 3. The Family Secret A Deadly Affair 3. The Family Secret Renee’s only sibling gives evidence and the secret Renee never shared with her. 20 Sept 2024 • 28 mins Save A Deadly Affair 4. Everything is Helpful A Deadly Affair 4. Everything is Helpful We hear from the Crown's key witness, Renee’s closest friend and confidante. 20 Sept 2024 • 31 mins Save A Deadly Affair 5. Tell the Man to Go and Boil his Head A Deadly Affair 5. Tell the Man to Go and Boil his Head The wife of the accused, William MacDowell, takes the witness stand. 20 Sept 2024 • 38 mins Save A Deadly Affair 6. A Walking Dead Man A Deadly Affair 6. A Walking Dead Man Evidence concerning a most unusual and urgent request by the accused is heard. 27 Sept 2024 • 31 mins Save A Deadly Affair 7. I deny any association with Mrs. MacRae A Deadly Affair 7. I deny any association with Mrs. MacRae We hear from the accused about his affair with Renee and his treatment of her. 27 Sept 2024 • 40 mins Save A Deadly Affair 8. It must have slipped by mind A Deadly Affair 8. It must have slipped by mind A damning note, sent to Police 29 years after Renee and her son vanish, is considered. 27 Sept 2024 • 28 mins Save A Deadly Affair 9. The man with the Mexican styled moustache A Deadly Affair 9. The man with the Mexican styled moustache Renee’s GP gives evidence about an encounter that has haunted him for decades. 27 Sept 2024 • 31 mins Save ... British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.