https://edition.cnn.com/travel/macahel-iremit-pansiyon-turkish-cheese-breakfast/index.html
The woman who invents cheeses in her mountain hideaway | CNN CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Destinations Food & Drink News Stay Video More Destinations Food & Drink News Stay Video Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Destinations Food & Drink News Stay Video Follow CNN Travel World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Destination Turkey Ad Feedback The woman who invents cheeses in her mountain hideaway By Maureen O'Hare , CNN 4 minute read Published
          11:05 AM EST, Wed December 11, 2024 Link Copied! Follow: The Middle East See your latest updates Blessed are the cheesemakers: Sevda İyem loves to conjure up new dairy inventions at her guesthouse home. Maureen O'Hare/CNN Macahel Valley: This UNESCO biosphere reserve sits on the Turkish side of the border with Georgia. Maureen O'Hare/CNN Good morning: The view from the balcony at the İyems' guesthouse. Maureen O'Hare/CNN Macahel İremit Pansiyon: The path down to the cowshed at the İyems' guesthouse. Maureen O'Hare/CNN Industry: Sevda İyem at work in her kitchen. Maureen O'Hare/CNN Eat up: The table is laid for breakfast with an array of Turkish delights. Maureen O'Hare/CNN Stepping back in time: The guesthouse is lovingly decorated with items from the mid-20th century and earlier. Maureen O'Hare/CNN Picture-frame window: This is a popular photo spot for visitors. Maureen O'Hare/CNN Welcome home: The decor is simple and charming. Maureen O'Hare/CNN Cheesy lover: Just one of the creations on offer at the guesthouse. Maureen O'Hare/CNN Khachapuri: Sevda İyem made khachapuri, Georgian cheese bread, as a special request from CNN. Maureen O'Hare/CNN The future: The guesthouse has been running for 17 years and the family now has plans for a yoga studio. Maureen O'Hare/CNN Mountain cheesemaking Prev Next Editor’s Note: This CNN series is, or was, sponsored by the country it highlights. CNN retains full editorial control over subject matter, reporting and frequency of the articles and videos within the sponsorship, in compliance with our policy . Kaçkar Mountains, Turkey CNN — “Every day you can make a different cheese. It’s all in your hands,” says Sevda İyem, her fingers working nimbly as she prepares a fresh block in the kitchen of her family guesthouse overlooking the Macahel Valley, close to the Turkish border with Georgia. Today, like every morning, she rose as dawn crept over the richly forested slopes of this UNESCO biosphere reserve in the Kaçkar Mountains to milk her cows by hand. Perched on the hillside, just below the balcony where in a few hours İyem’s guests will sit down to a homemade breakfast, is what has to be one of the world’s most scenically positioned cowsheds. There are four cows inside, three of them pregnant. Milking requires a fast, firm motion, Iyem explains. Don’t yank or pull, just squeeze the teat from top to bottom and the bucket soon fills. “I chat with the cows all day long. There is an ongoing conversation,” Iyem tells CNN through an interpreter. “I can figure out what they’re asking for, what they want.” The cattle don’t want for much in this alpine Eden, just a winding 90-minute drive upwards from the Black Sea coast. Here is unspoiled, uninterrupted, nature in an area protected by UNESCO for its biodiversity and its traditional ways of life. Sevda İyem instructs CNN's Christina Macfarlane on milking. Paul Devitt/CNN Village life In this remote corner of Turkey life continues as it has for generations, with hard-working women the backbone of the home, tending the land and looking after livestock. “I love village life, city life is not for me,” says İyem. She and her husband Mevlüt took over Mevlüt’s rundown family home and fully renovated it to become the restful guesthouse it is today. At first, they were back and forth between summers here and winters in Istanbul, but now they live here year-round. Seasonal migration is common in this region, so İyem looks after her neighbor’s cows when they leave during the colder months. The cozy wooden home is decorated simply with traditional rugs and crocheted placemats and it feels like stepping back in time to the rustic mid-20th century. Glorious views greet the eye from every window and balcony in this most relaxing of mountain hideaways. While the vistas are spectacular, the real star here is İyem’s home-cooked dinners and breakfasts, a cornucopia of Turkish and Georgian dishes, most of which are prepared from scratch on site using local ingredients from her garden and the mountains beyond. Maureen O'Hare/CNN Related card The alpine wonderland hidden between Europe and Asia Gastronomic discovery Cheese-making is a daily business at the guesthouse. Paul Devitt/CNN İyem’s kitchen isn’t just a cookhouse; it’s a workshop, a laboratory and a wizard’s lair. She does at least “15 different types of cheese,” the interpreter explains. “Four of them are very local, traditional in the area. The rest are her own inventions, discoveries she’s trying. Some of them are consumed fresh, on the day or up to one week, some of them are aged.” Toasted sesame might make its way into the mix. Zucchini flowers, parsley, dill or herbs might appear. Cheese are drizzled with oil, preserved in jars, or baptized with salt and spices. Economy is key in what is effectively a zero-waste kitchen. The milk collected in the morning is churned by hand, with the cream set aside for the breakfast table. Leftover milk will be used for bread-making and even ends of cheese blocks will get a second life by being boiled in milk and transformed into a new gastronomic invention. Maureen O'Hare/CNN Related article Turkey’s ‘mad honey’ has been folk medicine for millennia, but there’s a sting in its tail A traditional Turkish breakfast involves a generous variety of cheeses, from cow to goat to sheep milk, including staples such as stringy çeçil and pungent tulum . The İyem table is also laden with deliciously fresh cherry and blackberry preserves, as well as molasses and tahini. The Black Sea region is home to many hazelnut farms and the nut makes its way onto the guesthouse table combined in a tomato paste with walnut. The mountains are also famous for their honey, produced by the prized Caucasian honey bee. There is cucumber, tomato and olives and fresh-baked bread. To wash it all down, there are delicate glasses of tea. Northeastern Turkey is tea country , with vertiginously planted tea plantations a common sight along the looping mountain roads. The amber beverage is consumed everywhere in large measure — by some estimates, Turkey has the highest consumption of tea per capita in the world. It’s tough work, running a traditional, labor-intensive home and creating food from scratch. “If I didn’t enjoy it, I couldn’t do it. It would be torture. But I do it with great love,” says İyem. As for her guests, “II love that they enjoy it so much. I’ve never had anyone say they didn’t like the food. So it’s a very nice feeling.” Macahel İremit Pansiyon , Maral Köyü, İremit Mahallesi, No: 7, Borçka 08490 CNN’s Christina Macfarlane, Stefanie Blendis, Işıl Sarıyüce and Paul Devitt contributed to this story. Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Travel Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.