https://edition.cnn.com/2025/03/26/entertainment/avengers-doomsday-cast-chris-hemsworth-paul-rudd/index.html
‘Avengers’ cast news: Patrick Stewart, Ian McKellen, Chris Hemsworth, Paul Rudd join ‘Doomsday’ lineup | CNN CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity More Movies Television Celebrity Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Movies Television Celebrity Follow CNN Entertainment World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Ad Feedback X-cuse me!? Marvel tees up major ‘X-Men’ and ‘Avengers’ returns for ‘Doomsday’ By Dan Heching , CNN 4 minute read Updated
          7:05 PM EDT, Wed March 26, 2025 Link Copied! Follow: Movies See your latest updates Ian McKellen, Rebecca Romijn and Patrick Stewart. Getty Images CNN — Perhaps attempting to prove that reports of its box office demise have been greatly exaggerated, Marvel on Wednesday announced major casting news for its upcoming “Avengers” sequel that both flex the power of its history and set it up for the future. A major component to their plan: The return of characters and actors from the original “X-Men” franchise, a Marvel property that was under the 20th Century Fox banner before Disney purchased that studio in 2019. The “Avengers: Doomsday” cast now includes Sir Patrick Stewart, who has portrayed Professor X in multiple “X-Men” movies, Sir Ian McKellen as adversary Magneto, James Marsden as Cyclops, Rebecca Romijn as Mystique and Alan Cumming as Nightcrawler. All of these actors last appeared together in 2003’s beloved sequel “X2: X-Men United.” Kelsey Grammer, who famously played Beast in 2006’s “X-Men: The Last Stand” and showed up in a post-credits scene in 2023’s “The Marvels,” will also appear, Marvel revealed. The jam-packed cast for “Doomsday” – set to premiere in theaters in 2026 – was announced via livestream over the course of roughly five hour s and included 27 names in all, including the previously announced return of Robert Downey Jr. in the role of Doctor Doom . Joining the “X” alums are Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) mainstays Chris Hemsworth, who has played Thor since 2011, Anthony Mackie as Captain America, Sebastian Stan as The Winter Soldier, Paul Rudd as Ant-Man, and Simu Liu, who played Shang-Chi in his 2021 standalone film . Later in the livestream, it was announced that Tom Hiddleston – who has played Loki in both the MCU and in his namesake Disney+ series – will also be featured in “Doomsday,” as will Channing Tatum, who portrayed X-Man Gambit in an extended (and thought to be jokey one-off) cameo in last summer’s “Deadpool & Wolverine.” Wyatt Russell as U.S. Agent, David Harbour as Red Guardian, Tenoch Huerta Mejía as Namor and Letitia Wright as Shuri – from the “Black Panther” and previous “Avengers” films – will also make appearances, Marvel announced. Florence Pugh is also set to return as Yelena Belova, after her debut in 2021’s “Black Widow” and following this spring’s “Thunderbolts*.” Alums won’t have all the fun. All four actors set to be introduced in this summer’s “ Fantastic Four: First Steps ” – Pedro Pascal, Ebon Moss-Bachrach, Vanessa Kirby and Joseph Quinn – were also announced as part of the “Doomsday” mega-cast. Chris Hemsworth, Paul Rudd and Simu Liu. Getty Images While many of these actors have enjoyed previous appearances in the MCU or other Marvel properties, it remains unclear how substantive their roles will be in the new film, and going forward. Notable absences from the superheroic lineup include Scarlett Johansson – who last week sounded off on the dim outlook of her return to the MCU – along with Elizabeth Olsen’s Scarlet Witch, Benedict Cumberbatch’s Dr. Strange and Mark Ruffalo’s fan-favorite Hulk. The Avengers’ last official team-up was in 2019, for the record-breaking “Endgame,” which saw both the defeat of intergalactic supervillain Thanos (Josh Brolin) and the death of flagship MCU superhero Iron Man/Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.). However, it was revealed last year that Downey Jr. will be back for this next go-round, but as the titular baddie Dr. Doom. At the end of Wednesday’s livestream, Downey Jr. appeared and sat in a director’s chair with his name on it, before the stream concluded. After the success of “Endgame,” the MCU has faced several hurdles and box office misfires including 2021’s “Eternals” and “Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania” in 2023, but still enjoyed some success in the form of “Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3” and “Deadpool & Wolverine.” But with last month’s “Captain America” sequel and the upcoming “Thunderbolts*” slated to fall short of the expectations that “Endgame”-era MCU fare was able to muster, there’s a palpable sense that the hardy MCU superheroes have peaked. “Doomsday’s” monstrously stacked cast list is perhaps the studio’s answer in part and a look at how it plans to find its way back to the glory days – with a little help from a couple dozen friends. “Avengers: Doomsday” is currently in production and set to hit theaters on May 1, 2026. This story has been updated with additional information. Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Entertainment Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Entertainment Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.