https://www.cnn.com/2025/04/26/sport/shedeur-sanders-drafted-cleveland-browns-fifth-round-spt/index.html
After a surprisingly long wait, Colorado QB Shedeur Sanders selected by Cleveland Browns in 5th round | CNN CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey More Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Follow CNN World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Ad Feedback After a surprisingly long wait, Colorado QB Shedeur Sanders selected by Cleveland Browns in 5th round By Wayne Sterling and Jacob Lev , CNN 3 minute read Updated
          4:29 PM EDT, Sat April 26, 2025 Link Copied! Colorado Buffaloes quarterback Shedeur Sanders speaks to the media during the Big 12 Media Days in July. Candice Ward/USA Today Sports/Reuters CNN — And on the third and final day of the NFL draft , University of Colorado quarterback Shedeur Sanders was selected by the Cleveland Browns with the 144th overall pick in the fifth round Saturday. It was a surprisingly long wait for the 2024 Big 12 Offensive Player of the Year. Sanders was widely expected to be picked early on with several teams in need of a quarterback. After hearing his named finally called, Sanders celebrated on the Twitch social media platform and called his draft slide “perfect timing.” “Our belief in God, that’s all we care about. We know these decisions, things happen, sometimes it’s adversity,” the 23-year-old said. “You just got to remain positive, stay happy at all times and know God got you. … So I wasn’t really panicking because I understood it’s about perfect timing.” From Colorado to Cleveland! Shedeur Sanders joining the QB room pic.twitter.com/KjkTb7jXae — Cleveland Browns (@Browns) April 26, 2025 Browns general manager Andrew Berry told reporters he didn’t expect Sanders to be available in the fifth round but said the team believes in adding compettion for every position. “Obviously, Shedeur has kind of grown up in the spotlight, but our expectation is for him to come in here and work and compete. Nothing’s been promised, nothing will be given. I hesitate to characterize (the pick) as a blockbuster. That’s not necessarily how we thought of the transaction, but we are excited to work with him.” Despite not getting picked on Thursday or Friday, Sanders did remain positive, saying “Thank you GOD for EVERYTHING,” in a post on X Friday night. TEMPE, ARIZONA - OCTOBER 07: Head coach Deion Sanders of the Colorado Buffaloes talks with quarterback Shedeur Sanders #2 during first half of the NCAAF game against the Arizona State Sun Devils at Mountain America Stadium on October 07, 2023 in Tempe, Arizona. (Photo by Christian Petersen/Getty Images) Christian Petersen/Getty Images Related article Shedeur Sanders remains undrafted after first three rounds of 2025 NFL draft “Given the nature of the weekend for him – relative to let’s say external expectation versus what happened – you know we did tell him that it really doesn’t matter where you’re picked, it’s what you do from that point forward,” Berry added. “In terms of his reaction, I’d just say it was probably a mixture of like gratitude, relief and determination, that would probably be the best way to characterize it. But he’s certainly ready to go.” Five quarterbacks were selected before Sanders. On Thursday, the Tennessee Titans selected University of Miami’s Cam Ward with the No. 1 overall pick and the New York Giants chose Jaxson Dart (25th overall) from Ole Miss in the first round. Friday saw three quarterbacks picked - Louisville’s Tyler Shough (40th overall) to the New Orleans Saints in the second round while Alabama’s Jalen Milroe (92nd overall) and Oregon’s Dillon Gabriel (94th overall), Sanders’ teammate, found new homes with the Seattle Seahawks and Browns respectively in the third round. “I think every player when they come into the draft, knows what number they were picked or if they were unpicked, and you can use that for motivation,” Browns head coach Kevin Stefanski said. “First round pick, seventh round pick, undrafted, once you’re here and you’re on our football team, you’re a part of this culture, you’re a part of this family, and we’re just gonna keep our head down and get to work.” DETROIT, MICHIGAN - APRIL 27: A detail of the Mr. Irrelevant jersey during round seven of the 2024 NFL draft at Campus Martius Park and Hart Plaza on April 27, 2024 in Detroit, Michigan. (Photo by Nic Antaya/Getty Images) Nic Antaya/Getty Images Related article The best things come to those who wait. Here’s why being Mr. Irrelevant in the NFL draft is priceless. Sanders, the former four-star recruit coming out of high school has only been coached by his father, Pro Football Hall of Famer Deion Sanders, during his four-year collegiate career that started at Jackson State University in 2021. After two seasons with the Tigers, Sanders followed his father to Boulder, Colorado, to play at Colorado ahead of the 2023 season along with JSU teammate Travis Hunter, who was drafted second overall by the Jacksonville Jaguars on Thursday. Sanders was prolific in his two seasons under center for the Buffaloes, leading them to a 9-4 record last year while throwing for 4,134 yards, 37 touchdowns and 10 interceptions. He finished eighth in the 2024 Heisman Trophy voting. The story has been updated with additional information. Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Sports Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.