https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cy8e772enngo
Alcohol drinking makes male fruit flies more attractive Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Alcohol makes male fruit flies more attractive 2 April 2025 Share Save Tim Dodd Climate and science reporter Share Save Anna Schroll Male flies fed alcohol enjoyed more mating success than those given water Male fruit flies that drink alcohol become more attractive to females, according to a new study. Adding alcohol to males' food increases their release of chemicals that attract females and leads to higher mating success. Fruit flies, or Drosophila melanogaster, are often found around our food waste bins as they feed on rotting fruit which gradually produces alcohol. Scientists have been trying to study why they are attracted to alcohol and how it affects them. Previous research has studied different theories about this attraction, such as the flies were seeking a euphoric state or a substitute for the high of mating among males rejected by females. Study author Bill Hansson, head of the Department of Evolutionary Neuroethology at the Max Planck Institute, said such research has taken an anthropomorphic view of fly behaviour, whereas this latest study suggests drinking alcohol gives the flies a reproductive advantage. "We don't think flies drink alcohol because they are depressed," he said. The fly's attraction both to the carbohydrates and yeast in rotting fruit, as well as to the alcohol, cannot be separated, he added. In the study, alcohol, and particularly methanol, increased the males' production and release of chemical sex signals, called pheromones, which made them more attractive to females. Pheromones are released into the air from one individual to influence the behaviour of another animal of the same species. Males were therefore strongly attracted to alcohol, especially those males which  had never mated. The new study also showed that the fly's response to smelling alcohol is controlled by three different neural circuits in its brain. While two are responsible for attracting male flies to small amounts of alcohol, a third ensures that excessive amounts have a deterrent effect. Because alcohol is toxic, the fly's brain must carefully weigh the risks and benefits of drinking it, and it does this by balancing signals of attraction with aversion. "This means that the flies have a control mechanism that allows them to get all the benefits of alcohol consumption without risking alcohol intoxication," lead author Ian Keesey, of the University of Nebraska, said. For their investigations, the researchers combined physiological studies - such as imaging techniques to visualise processes in the fly brain, chemical analyses of environmental odours, and behavioural studies. The paper is published in the journal Science Advances . Alcohol Biology Related Smartwatch app accurately tracks drinking habits 2 days ago Bristol Call for 'health' powers to limit alcohol licences 19 Apr 2025 Tees Hotel workers help make night-time venues safer 15 Apr 2025 Guernsey More 1 day ago Are twins allergic to the same things? If one of a pair of twins is allergic to something, does that mean the other twin will be sensitive too? 1 day ago Future 2 days ago Is resurrecting extinct animals a good idea? The creation of three "dire wolf" pups has raised hopes that it may be possible to resurrect extinct animals. But some scientists have grave concerns. 2 days ago Future 7 days ago What genetics has taught us about race As US President Donald Trump takes aim at the Smithsonian Institution for "anti-American ideology", Adam Rutherford examines what the science of genetics has taught us about race. 7 days ago Future 8 Apr 2025 Experts dispute claim dire wolf brought back from extinction Independent experts say three white wolf puppies are not dire wolves, as claimed by US company Colossal 8 Apr 2025 Science & Environment 13 Mar 2025 The global challenge of iron deficiency A lack of this vital nutrient is one of the world's leading causes of disability – but exactly when it becomes a problem, and the best way to treat it, remains unclear. 13 Mar 2025 Future British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.