https://www.bbc.com/audio/brand/p07nkd84
BBC Audio | The Missing Cryptoqueen Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Save Share The Missing Cryptoqueen Dr Ruja Ignatova persuaded millions to join her financial revolution. Then she disappeared. Why? Jamie Bartlett presents a story of greed, deceit and herd madness. Save Share Episodes (13 available) The Missing Cryptoqueen Introducing... The Missing Cryptoqueen The Missing Cryptoqueen Introducing... The Missing Cryptoqueen Join writer Jamie Bartlett for a story of greed, deceit and herd madness. 17 Sept 2019 • 2 mins Save The Missing Cryptoqueen 1. Dr Ruja The Missing Cryptoqueen 1. Dr Ruja Dr Ruja promised financial revolution. And then, two years ago, she disappeared. Why? 19 Sept 2019 • 22 mins Save The Missing Cryptoqueen 2. The Bitcoin Killer The Missing Cryptoqueen 2. The Bitcoin Killer Not all is as it seems with Dr Ruja's revolutionary cryptocurrency, OneCoin. 19 Sept 2019 • 35 mins Save The Missing Cryptoqueen 3. More Than Just a Coin The Missing Cryptoqueen 3. More Than Just a Coin Dr Ruja's hold over OneCoin investors is far stronger than we thought.  Why? 26 Sept 2019 • 40 mins Save The Missing Cryptoqueen 4. Miss OneLife The Missing Cryptoqueen 4. Miss OneLife Jamie and Georgia arrive in Bucharest for their first OneCoin event. Who might be there? 3 Oct 2019 • 38 mins Save The Missing Cryptoqueen 5. What Dreams May Come The Missing Cryptoqueen 5. What Dreams May Come One of the world's highest-earning MLM'ers and former top OneCoin seller, agrees to talk. 10 Oct 2019 • 1 hr 1 min Save The Missing Cryptoqueen 6. The Überflieger The Missing Cryptoqueen 6. The Überflieger A factory in Germany and a cryptocurrency scam. Two different worlds, one familiar story. 17 Oct 2019 • 39 mins Save The Missing Cryptoqueen 7. In Plain Sight The Missing Cryptoqueen 7. In Plain Sight Could Dr Ruja and the missing billions be hidden in plain sight? 28 Oct 2019 • 43 mins Save The Missing Cryptoqueen 8. The Technology and the Dream The Missing Cryptoqueen 8. The Technology and the Dream The final episode takes an unexpected twist. 4 Nov 2019 • 1 hr Save The Missing Cryptoqueen 9. Follow the Money The Missing Cryptoqueen 9. Follow the Money The search for Dr Ruja is back on.  A lot has happened since Episode 8. 6 Aug 2020 • 45 mins Save ... British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.