https://edition.cnn.com/2024/05/15/style/priscilla-queen-of-the-desert-costumes/index.html
Why the drag looks in ‘The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert’ are still iconic, 30 years on | CNN CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video More Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Follow CNN Style World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Ad Feedback Style Fashion • 6 min read Why the drag looks in ‘The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert’ are still iconic, 30 years on By Caitlin Chatterton, CNN 6 minute read Published
          3:32 AM EDT, Wed May 15, 2024 Link Copied! In a now-famous scene, Adam Whitley (Guy Pearce) climbed onto the roof of their bus and, as his drag persona Felicia Jollygoodfellow, performed opera in a look inspired by the Rolls Royce 'Spirit of Ecstasy'. Warner Bros/Everett Collection CNN — Sydney, 1994. A dimly-lit bar, wrapped in tinsel curtains and the fragmented, twirling light from a disco ball. Tick Belrose (played by Hugo Weaving) is on stage lip syncing as his drag persona Mitzi Del Bra; clad in a silver sequin dress with matching gloves and a bouffant blonde wig. This is the opening scene from “The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert”, which first screened at Cannes Film Festival 30 years ago this month. “I made that dress for myself,” Tim Chappel, one of the movie’s costume designers, told CNN. “The weekend before, I’d gone to the Miss Teen USA beauty pageant as Miss Silicon Valley, because (the dress) had joke plastic boobs inside. Stephan (Elliott, the film’s writer and director) was really on my case because I wanted to do lots of obscure stuff (to costume the film ), and he wanted (the principal characters in drag)  to look like ladies. So I said we can make him look like a lady and take the piss at the same time, because the boobs are clearly from a party shop. And I’d already made it, so it was cheap!” In the film, Tick scoops up his freshly widowed friend Bernadette Bassenger (played by Terence Stamp) and flamboyant, fellow drag queen Adam Whitley/ Felicia Jollygoodfellow (actor Guy Pearce) and goes west — both musically and literally — for a road trip across the Outback in their affectionately-christened bus: Priscilla, Queen of the Desert. In the film, Tick (Hugo Weaving) and Bernadette (Terence Stamp) help Adam (Guy Pearce) realize his dream of climbing King Canyon in full drag. Moviestore/Shutterstock “We were just having a laugh!” Chappel said, recalling the film’s production. Sydney 30 years ago was at a unique point in time and culture; not yet tethered to the rest of the world via the internet, the somewhat isolated drag scene was able to cultivate its own sprawling visual language for storytelling and sexual politics, beyond the more recognizable female impersonation that Elliott might have initially pushed for. “It was my first opportunity to really express myself as a designer, and I wasn’t going to let anybody stand in my way,” Chappel said. “I just really wanted to make (the film’s wardrobe) unique and interesting.” Serving looks, on a budget Film critic Susan Barber, despite calling out the problematic handling of female and non-white characters, dubbed “Priscilla” the “darling” of the Cannes Film Festival after it premiered there in 1994. The film quickly drew attention for its costuming in particular, winning Chappel and fellow designer Lizzy Gardiner an Oscar in 1995. The plastic wig worn by Felicia Jollygoodfellow and the flip-flop dress worn by Mitzi Del Bra have become some of the film's most iconic looks. AJ Pics/Alamy Stock Photo Among many iconic looks is the flip-flop (or ‘thong,’ if you’re Australian) dress. It was made from shoes Chappel bought for $15 in Target using his mother’s staff discount — “which was good,” he said, “because that was about three quarters of our budget.” Their mandated thriftiness meant that several costumes, “made with hot glue, chicken wire and duct tape”, fell apart not long after the cameras stopped rolling. The flip-flop dress survived, though — that was made with cable ties, as well as duct tape. A man dons a feather headdress for the 2001 Wigstock, and annual drag festival held in Manhattan. (Photo by mark peterson/Corbis via Getty Images) Mark Peterson/Corbis/Getty Images Related article The US has a rich drag history. Here’s why the art form will likely outlast attempts to restrict it Two years passed between Chappel first joining the project and its (limited) funding being secured. The time allowed him to play with and re-do ideas, evolving initial plans into their extravagant final form. In one scene, for instance, Tick, Adam and Bernadette put on a fireside performance of Gloria Gaynor’s “I Will Survive” for a group of First Nations people. Rather than mimic Gaynor’s hairstyle directly, however, Chappel spent his elongated preparation time adding an increasing bouquet of flowers to the trio’s headpieces, until eventually there was no hair left at all. “I think that’s definitely one of the most iconic looks,” drag artist and costumer Philmah Bocks told CNN. Bocks has been designing costumes for 30 years, having broken into the drag scene around the same time “Priscilla” was hitting screens. Tim Chappel's costume sketch shows the origins of the floral headpieces and flat-bottomed outfit worn by the principal trio during their performance of "I Will Survive". Tim Chappel By the time the costume was complete, Tick/Mitzi's 'wig' was entirely made of flowers. Moviestore/Shutterstock “The thong dress is a very iconic piece too, because I think that’s very (stereotypically) Australian. And of course the big finale look, with the emus on top of their heads. That’s the beauty of ‘Priscilla’: they’ve really captured a moment in Australian time and used Australian culture and flora and fauna to create these wonderful pieces.” “The art of drag costuming is the ability to turn drab into fab,” she continued. “’Priscilla’ showed us a lot of that, because a lot of that type of design work was happening in and around Sydney in the early ‘90s. There was this sort of explosion of drag costuming that went beyond couture. Of course, queens were also on a budget. You couldn’t always afford hundreds or even thousands of dollars to create the most beautiful pieces, but you could kind of get there with stuff we found in a dumpster! It’s what you do with it that makes the difference… I’ve been replicating (Chappel’s) costumes for 30 years, so I’ve got a lot to thank him for!” In Miami, a new street art installation celebrates the city's vibrant drag scene City of Miami Beach Communications Department Related article In Miami Beach, a new street art installation celebrates the city’s vibrant drag scene Bocks is known for her foam, or ‘Phoam’, wigs, a look also popularized in “Priscilla” which she’s made for London’s hit musical “Priscilla the Party!” as well as for Katy Perry on an episode of “American Idol”. These creations also follow the “drab to fab” ethos: they’re made from materials bought at the hardware store. “I remember buying this product from the hardware store knowing full well that it was going on Katy Perry’s head, and that made me laugh a little,” Bocks said. “Of course, by the time I’d finished with it, it looked nothing like it had originally.” Spirit of Ecstasy Perhaps more so than any other costume, the enduring image from “Priscilla” is Adam/ Felicia’s opera performance atop the moving bus, decked out in hundreds of meters of flowing silver lamé. Its inspiration came from the Rolls Royce “Spirit of Ecstasy” bonnet ornament, though once again the final product went far beyond the script’s guidance. Tim Chappel's original sketch for Felicia Jollygoodfellow's bustop opera costume ended up as the exaggerated silver look that became legendary. Tim Chappel Felicia’s windswept aria comes after their bus is scrawled in homophobic graffiti — a reflection of the community’s resilience against hate and disaster in real life. “Priscilla” received her standing ovation at Cannes seven months before Australia decriminalized homosexuality at federal level; three years before Tasmania would become the final state to pass similar legislation, and at a time when the AIDS crisis was still at large. Despite that, Chappel remembers the film as coming at a positive turning point: new HIV treatments were being trialed, replacing toxic doses of the AZT drug that had previously been offered. “All of a sudden there was hope. Out of the blue,” he said. ““Priscilla”, I think, captures that energy of everybody coming back to life.” Stephan Elliott has recently announced that a sequel to “Priscilla” is in the works, with Chappel on board. The newest addition to the empire will join “Priscilla’s” musical adaptation, which has toured the globe in Chappel’s costumes since 2006. The film’s legacy can also be seen in Australia’s drag scene today and, since 2021, has been broadcast to new audiences via contestants on “Rupaul’s Drag Race Down Under”. “If I get run over by a bus tomorrow,” Chappel said, “the last little thought that goes through my head – besides ‘ouch’ – is going to be ‘I’ve left an impression, that’s cool’.” Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Style Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.