https://english.ahram.org.eg/News/532019.aspx
Meet the Swifties - Limelight - Al-Ahram Weekly - Ahram Online Sunday, 27 April 2025 French | عربي Home Egypt Egypt  Home Politics Society Courts & Law Foreign Affairs Health Urban & Transport Defence Tourism War on Gaza Business Business  Home Economy Markets & Companies Energy Tech Opinion World World  Home Region International Africa War in Ukraine War in Sudan Arts & Culture Arts & Culture  Home Screens Music Visual Art Stage & Street Sports Sports  Home Egyptian Football Talents Abroad World National Teams Africa Omni sports Multimedia Life & Style Life & Style  Home Style Health Food City Lights Antiquities Antiquities  Home Ancient Egypt Greco-Roman Coptic Islamic Museums Books Books  Home Reviews News Heritage Heritage  Home Walks Folk Arts Heritage special Photo Heritage Inspiring Minds Multimedia Al-Ahram Weekly Al-Ahram Weekly  Home Egypt Economy World Opinion Culture Limelight Heritage Features Focus Living Sufra Dayma Entre nous Autos Travel Interviews Special Nakba remembered Art Cinema Exhibitions Lectures Theater Music and dance Sports COP27 Meet the Swifties Lubna Abdel-Aziz Tuesday 17 Sep 2024 Arguably, the biggest celebrity in the world right now is Taylor Swift. In case some have not heard of her, it is time to figure out this unparalleled phenomenon and why the world is topsy-turvy over the young American singer/songwriter who may be moderate in most regards, except her talent. At first glance she is pretty, but not so pretty, average in most aspects, impervious to the great, inventive talent she lives within her mind. Why then has she cemented a remarkable connection with her followers around the world—and they are legions? An army of devotees, so eager, so fierce, follow her every breath, every sigh as she sings her mournful whispers and her yearning passion. They are called the “Swifties”— white, millennial, female, mostly. They sing her every note, wipe their every tear and follow her every move, mostly to concerts. They are also known as “fandoms”, originally a modern slang terminology, derived from “fan”. The better quest is for Taylor Swift herself. Why would professors, academicians, and musicians puzzle over the monumental success Swift has now enjoyed? Like Harvard School of Music and Berklee College of Music of Boston, pundits, lecturers, and teachers marvel at Swift’s undeniable fortune. Is it her flashing wit, her perceptive mind, her refreshing talent? Probably all, but far and beyond is her superior music and songwriting. The ability to write songs is easy, to write songs that only Taylor writes that are familiar, yet distinctive, accessible and meaningful is unrivalled. She has a sense of writing songs that convey a feeling that can make you imagine this is her own feeling. “It’s important to emphasise that it’s incredibly difficult to write a song, even one time, but to do it across entire albums for close to two decades is glorious and she does it on album after album for close to two decades,” said Toby Koenigsberg , assistant professor and chair of Music Theory, “she knows how to craft a melody.” Two decades? She has been writing great music for two decades? When? Was it not only recently that the world has been moved by the strumming of her banjo as she sang her soulful songs? When and where did they hear the sudden explosion of her unique strains? How did that massive popularity occur? Journalists believe that two catalysts led to the present unexpected recognition. Swift started on her many sold-out concerts known as the ERAS Tours, in the US and worldwide, now the highest grossing concert of all time and still continues to December 2024. The second factor for her fans frenzied madness was the relationship with her boyfriend’s superstar athlete Travis Kelce, of the Kansas City Chiefs Football. Together they watch tight-end Travis help win the Super Bowl and all mayhem ensued. Love was in the air and “all the world loves a lover.” Popularity aside, we are never to belittle the versatile talent of Miss Swift. Originally a country music writer/singer, Swift weaved her music into other sounds, other genres, always a risky move, but was accepted by her fans as she strayed into the realm of pop-culture and indie-styles, lighting the Billboard charts with her successive hits. It was hard work, meeting constantly with contention and contradiction. At age 19, Swift won for Best Female Video in 2009 at the MTV for “You Belong With Me”, when Kanye West jumped on stage to interrupt her acceptance speech, crying that Beyonce was more deserving. Both Taylor and Beyonce cried backstage after Kanye’s outburst. The gods were smiling on that December 1989, when Taylor was born. Her parents, Scott and Andrea, so admired singer James Taylor, they called their newborn daughter, Taylor. Her talent was evident since her childhood, presenting her first album “Debut” at the age of 14. The world according to Swift makes her as omnipresent as the likes of Michael Jackson and Madonna back in the 1980s. How has Taylor achieved since her teens, let us count the ways? Apart from her business acumen, her social media publicity, her success and popularity, has she changed the world? Swift has used her fame to address social and political issues, leaving a big impact on many people throughout the world, by giving them music to relate to and standing up for her issues. She proved she can do whatever she wants to do. Publicist Lauren Beeching touted her talent profusely: “She sheds her skin and becomes a new version of herself to fit in with today’s culture. You never know what will come next, which is what keeps her fans so engaged.” Very few people have her songwriting talent, the only one of comparable hit songs, except for someone like Bob Dylan. With her highest grossing ERAS Tour of all time, her re-recording old albums, her three completely new albums in the last few years, her break-ups and public new romances, her concert movie and her award-winning record breaking in the last few years, she is the talk of the decade. She may well have a poet’s soul, but is she another Beatles? Historians say never. Swift’s superb artistry is unmistakable. She has surpassed every achievement, leaving a world inspired and awe-inspired. Like yesterday a time will come for God’s given talents to fill our hearts with new joy. “For everything there is a season, a time for every purpose under heaven.” This is the season for the Swifties. “Though nothing can bring back the hour of the splendour in the grass.” William Wordsworth (1770-1850) * A version of this article appears in print in the 19 September, 2024 edition of Al-Ahram Weekly Follow us on: Facebook Instagram Whatsapp Short link: Latest News CAF U20 Africa Cup of Nations fixtures (1st round, group stage) Live score: Egypt v South Africa (CAF U-20 Africa Cup of Nations) Egyptian film Life After Siham to screen at Cannes parallel section ACID Italy Serie A fixtures & results (34th matchday) Egyptian actresses May El-Ghety, May Calamawy join cast of new US production..... Egyptian-Norwegian artist Britt Boutros Ghali exhibits works in Berlin, Seoul Book Review: Pope Francis – the man who listened before he preached Efforts for restoring Gaza ceasefire should be intensified: El-Sisi to Hungarian..... All eyes turn to conclave as Pope Francis tomb opens to public Peruvian actors with Down syndrome tear down barriers in London's  show Most Viewed A massive explosion at Iranian port kills 8, injures around 750 China development contributes to world peace: Experts at Chinese Modernization..... Egyptian Players Abroad: Abdelmonem helps Nice win, Sam Morsy plays but Ipswich..... Egypt’s annual unemployment rate drops to 6.6 percent in 2024: CAPMAS Palestinian president Abbas appoints aide as potential successor English Premier League results & fixtures (34th matchday) Match facts: Newcastle United v Ipswich Town (English Premier League) Koller’s future at Ahly in doubt after Champions League exit Israel's 60-day blockade: Palestinians struggling to feed their families Israeli strike kills 10 including 5 children amid efforts to resume Gaza ceasefire Also In Limelight Fasting is healing The flavours of Ramadan ‘If winter comes’ It should be spring Hollywood loves Wicked What’s in our stars? Other worlds of wonder The bells are ringing Egypt War on Gaza Business Opinion World Arts & Culture Sports Life & Style Antiquities Books Heritage Multimedia Al-Ahram Weekly Work For Us About us © 2020 All Rights Reserved Ahram Online.