https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-49616012
Breck Bednar: Mother seeks tighter controls on social media - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Israel-Gaza war War in Ukraine Climate Video World UK Business Tech Science More Entertainment & Arts Health World News TV In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat England Regions Breck Bednar: Mother seeks tighter controls on social media Published 6 September 2019 Share close panel Share page Copy link About sharing Image source, Essex Police Image caption, Breck Bednar met his killer online before travelling to meet him The mother of a boy murdered after being groomed online has urged social media companies to improve their account verification processes. Breck Bednar, 14, from Caterham in Surrey, was lured by Lewis Daynes to his flat in 2014 and stabbed to death. A bogus Instagram account in Breck's name was found by his family but the company refused to take it down unless instructed to do so by Breck himself. It was a month later after The Telegraph , external contacted Instagram. A spokesperson for Instagram said: "We understand the distress this has caused the Bednar family and have removed the account." Daynes is serving a life sentence for the murder of Breck in Grays, Essex, after the pair met through a gaming website. Image caption, The bogus Instagram account was not removed for a month The Instagram account, which had 55 followers, said in the biography: "I am a 14-year-old gamer that owns a $2million Bitcoin company although I am currently deceased." Speaking of her horror at discovering the account, Breck's mother Lorin LaFave said: "I just wanted to just cry in the street. It's upsetting because it's somebody pretending to be Breck when no-one can replace him. "Social media companies need to help and they need to be more socially responsible, have more human assessors so that actually when there's a report or a concern they are able to act on it." Earlier this year, Breck's sister Chloe received a series of abusive messages on Snapchat claiming to be from her brother's killer. Snapchat was criticised for a delay in handing over data to police investigating claims the messages were from Daynes. After Breck's murder, his family - who now live in Kent - formed The Breck Foundation , external , which warns youngsters of online dangers. A film has also been created telling his story . More on this story The boy who met his killer online. Video, 00:02:33 The boy who met his killer online Published 13 July 2019 2:33 Snapchat 'delaying murder taunt probe' Published 6 March 2019 Murder victim's family 'taunted online' Published 18 February 2019 Murdered boy's sisters in web warning Published 15 December 2017 Boy's murder subject of grooming film Published 12 December 2017 Police payout for murdered boy's parents Published 13 March 2016 Life for killer who met boy online Published 12 January 2015 Mother warns of 'online predators' Video, 00:01:15 Mother warns of 'online predators' Published 25 November 2014 1:15 Related internet links The Breck Foundation The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Top stories Live . Police say death toll from car ramming at Vancouver festival has risen to 11 16463 viewing 16k viewing Images of Pope Francis's tomb released Published 6 hours ago The secret conclave that will determine the next Pope More to explore How the next Pope is chosen 'Kicking butt' or 'going too fast'? Trump voters reflect on 100 days Australia's universal healthcare is crumbling. Can it be saved? Virginia Giuffre remembered as 'fierce warrior against sexual abuse' What should Democrats do now? Everyone has a different answer Stranded killer whales 'must leave now' as rehoming options shrink Eighty years on, survivors and families remember horrors of Bergen Belsen YouTubers on how they made site work for them as it turns 20 Politics Essential: Get the latest news and analysis delivered to your inbox every weekday Elsewhere on the BBC Hollywood star, Andrew Garfield, uncovers his family history Panorama reveals how Lloyds Bank treated its customers On the frontline with the London Ambulance Service Your first look at the final series of Man Like Mobeen Most read 1 Greens call for single-sex guidance to be withdrawn 2 Drag Race and Pose star Jiggly Caliente dies aged 44 3 Images of Pope Francis's tomb released 4 Ginger Mr Darcy will break barriers, jokes Lowden 5 Mourning turns to anger in Iran after massive port explosion kills 40 6 Greenland not a piece of property, says PM after Trump threats 7 Community in shock over attack involving crossbow 8 A stunning reversal of fortunes in Canada's historic election 9 Arrests over paint thrown on London Marathon route 10 Dad of 14-year-old killed in M6 crash charged BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2025 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.