https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.sinyee.babybus.taxi
Baby Panda's School Bus - Apps on Google Play Games Apps Books Kids google_logo Play Games Apps Books Kids none search help_outline Sign in with Google play_apps Library & devices payment Payments & subscriptions reviews My Play activity redeem Offers Play Pass Personalization in Play settings Settings Privacy Policy • Terms of Service Games Apps Books Kids play_arrow Trailer Baby Panda's School Bus BabyBus Contains ads In-app purchases 4.1 star 277K reviews 100M+ Downloads Rated for 3+ info Install Share Add to wishlist play_arrow Trailer About this game arrow_forward Baby Panda's School Bus is a 3D school bus driving simulation game designed for kids. In this driving game, you can not only experience driving a school bus but also simulate driving other cool cars. Embark on an exciting car adventure and feel the driving fun as a school driver, bus driver, fire truck driver, and engineering truck driver! A WIDE SELECTION OF VEHICLES You can choose to drive different types of vehicles, including school buses, tour buses, police cars, fire trucks, and construction vehicles! This school bus game uses realistic 3D graphics to restore real driving scenes in detail. From the moment you step into the simulated cab, every acceleration and turn will immerse you in the charm of driving! INTERESTING CHALLENGES In the driving simulation, you will be immersed in a series of fun tasks. You'll drive a school bus to escort kids to kindergarten or a tour bus to take them on an outing. You'll also have the chance to drive a police car on patrol, put out a fire with a fire truck, control an engineering truck to build a children's playground, and much more! EDUCATIONAL GAME In this school bus driving game, you'll also learn essential traffic rules: before leaving the station, make sure that all passengers on the school bus have fastened their seatbelt; obey traffic lights and give way to pedestrians crossing the road; and so on. The game integrates educational elements into the driving experience, enhancing your awareness of traffic safety without you even realizing it! Every departure will be followed by an amazing experience, and every completed task adds a thrilling chapter to your adventure story. Play Baby Panda's School Bus now to embark on your 3D simulation driving journey! FEATURES: - Perfect for fans of school bus games or driving simulations; - Six types of vehicles to drive: school bus, tour bus, police car, engineering vehicle, fire truck, and train; - Realistic driving scenes, giving you a real driving experience; - 11 kinds of driving terrain for you to explore; - 38 kinds of fun tasks to complete: catching thieves, building, firefighting, transportation, fueling, washing cars, and more! -  Freely design your school bus, tour bus, and more; - Various car customization accessories: wheels, body, seats, and more; - Meet ten-odd friendly friends; - Supports offline play! About BabyBus ————— At BabyBus, we dedicate ourselves to sparking kids' creativity, imagination and curiosity,and designing our products through the kids' perspective to help them explore the world on their own. Now BabyBus offers a wide variety of products, videos and other educational content for over 600 million fans from ages 0-8 around the world! We have released over 200 children's apps, over 2500 episodes of nursery rhymes and animations, over 9000 stories  of various themes spanning the Health, Language, Society, Science, Art and other fields. ————— Contact us: ser@babybus.com Visit us: http://www.babybus.com Updated on Apr 15, 2025 Available on Android, Windows* #1 top free educational Simulation Lifestyle Casual Single player Stylized Cartoon School Offline *Powered by Intel ® technology Events & offers Update available New Location: Doll Designer Shop Data safety arrow_forward Safety starts with understanding how developers collect and share your data. Data privacy and security practices may vary based on your use, region, and age. The developer provided this information and may update it over time. No data shared with third parties Learn more about how developers declare sharing No data collected Learn more about how developers declare collection Committed to follow the Play Families Policy See details Ratings and reviews Ratings and reviews are verified info_outline arrow_forward Ratings and reviews are verified info_outline phone_android Phone laptop Chromebook tablet_android Tablet 4.2 238K reviews 5 4 3 2 1 mahbul alom more_vert Flag inappropriate March 19, 2025 This game is one of my favourite games. This game is actually very good and different from all the games..❤️ 1,361 people found this review helpful Did you find this helpful? Yes No Howard more_vert Flag inappropriate October 22, 2021 It's a fun game and all but it gets boring after awhile, after you finish the first day you just repeat the same steps again and again. You pick up the kids, shop, take a photo shoot, do a check up, stop at a red light, do some kindergarten stuff then drop them off, and then you repeat those same steps over and over and over again. I'm not changing this review until you add more stuff. -Thank you for reading 4,813 people found this review helpful Did you find this helpful? Yes No Jema Newman more_vert Flag inappropriate March 20, 2025 I do like this good kind game a lot, because it is cool, this is not bore, this is not suck and I don't hate this good kind game. 1,182 people found this review helpful Did you find this helpful? Yes No See all reviews What’s new The 7-day check-in event has started! Log in to the game every day for 7 days straight to get awesome gifts! Tons of coins and flower decorations are waiting for you! There are also cool skins for the police car, fire truck, and school bus to give your vehicles a new look! Come and join us! flag Flag as inappropriate App support expand_more public Website email Support email ser@babybus.com shield Privacy Policy About the developer JAPAN BABYBUS CO.,LTD. sinyeeandroid@gmail.com 2-25-15, NIHOMBASHININGYOCHO
MS NIHOMBASHI BLDG. 10F.
CHUO-KU, 東京都 103-0013
Japan +86 180 6073 8050 More by BabyBus arrow_forward Little Panda's Town: Hospital BabyBus 4.0 star Panda Games: Town Home BabyBus 4.0 star Little Panda's Ice Cream Game BabyBus 4.2 star Little Panda: Princess Makeup BabyBus 3.7 star Baby Panda: Dental Care BabyBus 4.1 star Baby Panda's Play Land BabyBus 3.6 star Similar games arrow_forward Baby Panda's Kids Play BabyBus 4.5 star Baby Panda's Town: Life BabyBus 4.0 star Baby Panda World-Learning Game BabyBus 4.3 star BabyBus Kids: Play & Learn BabyBus 3.9 star Panda Games: Town Home BabyBus 4.0 star Baby Panda's Airport BabyBus 3.8 star flag Flag as inappropriate Google Play Play Pass Play Points Gift cards Redeem Refund policy Kids & family Parent Guide Family sharing Terms of Service Privacy About Google Play Developers Google Store All prices include VAT. Egypt (English)