https://www.bbc.com/audio/brand/p0hvvqqr
BBC Audio | Crime Next Door Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Save Share Crime Next Door A story of art, mystery and a solid gold, fully plumbed in toilet stolen from a British palace. With inside access at Blenheim Palace, we explore the story of the heist. Save Share Episodes (47 available) The Golden Toilet Heist Introducing... The Golden Toilet Heist The Golden Toilet Heist Introducing... The Golden Toilet Heist Exploring a story of art, mystery and a solid gold toilet stolen from a British palace. 18 Mar 2025 • 2 mins Save The Golden Toilet Heist 1. The Heist The Golden Toilet Heist 1. The Heist An early morning raid, a smashed-up palace and a missing solid gold toilet. 18 Mar 2025 • 19 mins Save The Golden Toilet Heist 2. The Rumour The Golden Toilet Heist 2. The Rumour After the raid on Blenheim Palace, rumours swirl about who stole the golden toilet. 25 Mar 2025 • 19 mins Save The Golden Toilet Heist 3. The Failures and The Fakes The Golden Toilet Heist 3. The Failures and The Fakes An art hunter examines the theft as fake golden toilets appear around Oxfordshire. 1 Apr 2025 • 16 mins Save The Golden Toilet Heist 4. The Thief The Golden Toilet Heist 4. The Thief Four years on, one of the toilet thieves is revealed as James ‘Jimmy’ Sheen. 8 Apr 2025 • 24 mins Save The Golden Toilet Heist 5. The Fence The Golden Toilet Heist 5. The Fence A trial begins and voice notes expose how the criminals cashed in on their golden loot. 15 Apr 2025 • 22 mins Save The Salisbury Poisonings Introducing...The Salisbury Poisonings The Salisbury Poisonings Introducing...The Salisbury Poisonings How was an innocent British mum killed by a Russian chemical weapon? 10 Oct 2024 • 2 mins Save The Salisbury Poisonings 1. The Novichok Attack The Salisbury Poisonings 1. The Novichok Attack A former Russian spy and his daughter are found poisoned on a bench. 10 Oct 2024 • 16 mins Save The Salisbury Poisonings 2. Poison Perfume The Salisbury Poisonings 2. Poison Perfume More people fall ill from Novichok poisoning. 10 Oct 2024 • 19 mins Save The Salisbury Poisonings 3. Baroness Theresa May The Salisbury Poisonings 3. Baroness Theresa May The former Prime Minister recalls when she first heard about the Novichok attack. 10 Oct 2024 • 24 mins Save ... British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.