https://www.bbc.co.uk/usingthebbc/privacy/losing-a-loved-one/
Losing a loved one Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds Bitesize CBeebies CBBC Food Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Video Live More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds Bitesize CBeebies CBBC Food Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Video Live Close menu Using the BBC Menu Menu Your Information and Privacy Cookie and Browser Settings Creating and Using Your Account Terms of Use Personal Information Privacy and Your Activity Children and Safety JavaScript has been disabled. This page needs JavaScript to work correctly. Please enable JavaScript in your browser
				settings. JavaScript is required for the following feature(s): opening and closing the navbar (on mobile) Losing a loved one Personal Information Personal Information What are you doing with my information? Do you share my information with other organisations? Sharing information with other sites How long will you keep my information? What are my rights? Losing a loved one Updated: 10 April 2024 We’re sorry for your loss. When you've lost someone, speaking to providers about closing accounts will be the last thing you'll want to do. We're here to help at this difficult time. Get in touch When you're ready, you can email us at DataProtection.Officer@bbc.co.uk or you can write to us at: BBC Data Protection Officer, C/o DPO Team, Floor 6 C, London Broadcasting House, London, W1A 1AA If you can’t make your request in writing because of a disability, please leave us a message on 020 8008 2882 and a member of the team will get in touch with you. What to expect When you do contact us we’ll ask you for details about the person that’s died such as their name and email address so that we can locate and close their BBC account. We will also ask about your relationship to them. We won't need the death certificate. If you have any questions, you may want to make a list and we'll do our best to answer them all. Change language: Cymraeg Gàidhlig iPages Dev tools Page built: Tue Dec 10 2024 14:16:24 GMT Site ID: ipages-using-the-bbc Built from: master @ d309a16 Rebuild Page The page will automatically reload. You may need to reload again if the build takes longer than expected. Rebuild page Useful links View in iSite View page XML View JSON cache View in iPages Dashboard Demo mode Hides preview environment warning banner on preview pages. On Off Theme toggler Select a theme and theme mode and click "Load theme" to load in your theme combination. Theme: Blue Green Internal Pink Purple Red Studios Teal Wales Neutral Theme Mode: Dark Default Light Load theme Reset Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds Bitesize CBeebies CBBC Food Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Video Live Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Privacy Policy Cookies Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Make an editorial complaint BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.