https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/c93qwr7gn69o
Welsh government budget: Tories on Trump trip miss vote - BBC News BBC Homepage Skip to content Accessibility Help Your account Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds More menu More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News Menu Home Israel-Gaza war War in Ukraine Climate Video World UK Business Tech Science More Entertainment & Arts Health World News TV In Pictures BBC Verify Newsbeat Wales Wales Politics Wales Business North West North East Mid South West South East Cymru Local News Tories on Trump trip miss Welsh budget vote Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Darren Millar has been leader of the Senedd's Conservatives for two months Daniel Davies Political correspondent, BBC Wales News David Deans Political reporter, BBC Wales News Published 4 February 2025 The leader of the Senedd's Conservatives and one of his colleagues have missed a vote on the Welsh government's draft budget after they went to the US for a prayer meeting. Darren Millar and Russell George are attending the National Prayer Breakfast where President Donald Trump is expected to give a speech. It meant the pair missed the first opportunity to debate Welsh government spending plans for next year. Labour won the vote on Tuesday, assisted by the abstention of Welsh Lib Dem Jane Dodds, as well as the absence of the two senior Conservatives. The governing party has half the seats in the Senedd and cannot win if the opposition is united in voting against. Before the news emerged that Millar was not present the vote had looked difficult for the government, as it was not clear what Dodds would do until late on Tuesday. The vote was largely symbolic ahead of a final vote in March, but losing on Tuesday would have embarrassed the government. Dodds has been in discussions with the government on a potential deal to help the spending plans pass next month, but has not yet announced an agreement. On Tuesday Plaid Cymru accused the Tories of giving up on being an opposition party, while Reform said the Conservatives "don't care about Wales". The prayer meeting on 6 February is an important date in the American political calendar and the first since Trump's inauguration. 'I'm Christian - get over it', says Welsh Tory leader Published 8 December 2024 Who is Darren Millar, new Senedd Tory leader? Published 5 December 2024 Both Tories are trustees of a Christian charity, the Evans Roberts Institute. The institute last year funded Rhys ab Owen to go to the same American event, while he was under investigation for his conduct . Conservatives have strongly criticised the spending plans and said on Monday night: "It must be voted down." But it emerged on Tuesday morning Millar would not be there because of what was described as "a long-standing commitment in the US where he will be meeting a number of high-profile politicians". Absent Senedd members can ask a member from another party to sit out the vote, an informal arrangement known as pairing. It is understood the Conservatives asked Labour to pair, but the request was rejected. In the debate, Finance Secretary Mark Drakeford told the Senedd he had been able to "provide an uplift to every part of the public service here in Wales, as well as to many other important areas". "Key areas such as the NHS, local government, education, transport and climate change will all benefit from this additional funding," he said. But Conservative Finance Spokesman Sam Rowlands accused the Welsh government of an "obsessive focus on centralisation and government jobs at the expense of trusting people to spend their own money in the way they see best for their families". He called on ministers to use their tax powers "to reduce the tax burden on people across Wales and put more money back in the pockets of hard working people". Plaid also voted against the budget. Plaid Cymru's Heledd Fychan said "every independent analysis [and] every sector that is in crisis demonstrates in stark terms that the draft budget is not going to lead to a brighter future for Wales, as we were told when it was published". She said the Senedd should be "recommitting" to "ensure fair funding for Wales, along with the powers to enable us to manage our resources more effectively here in Wales". Labour won the vote: 29 for, 26 against, with one abstention. 'Remarkable' Earlier, in First Minister's Questions, Plaid Cymru leader Rhun ap Iorwerth said Mr Millar's absence was "remarkable". He said the party had "clearly given up even on being an opposition party". A Newport Conservative councillor, David Fouweather, said on X: "If this is true it's an absolute disgrace that two of our members are missing. By not being present they are letting Labour do as they wish." He added later: "When you take on the role and responsibility of leader, then you have get your priorities right." A spokesman for Reform, which has no Senedd seats, said: "Today, the Senedd opposition had the opportunity to stand up against Mark Drakeford's disastrous draft budget. "Instead, the Tory leader of the opposition is in Washington DC proving yet again that the Conservatives don't care about Wales. They are opposition in name only." Analysis By Gareth Lewis, BBC Wales political editor Politics can move in mysterious ways at times, but this development has come as a huge surprise. Yes, the vote on the draft budget was symbolic, but it was a rare opportunity to embarrass Labour. Now it's the Conservatives in that position, especially after a punchy press release last night saying the budget should be voted down – something they knew could not happen. To say Labour and Plaid Cymru have been taken aback by events would be an understatement. Conservative sources are trying to play it down, saying Lib Dem leader Jane Dodds would have abstained in any case. And this does not take away from one final manoeuvre – Labour still needs to do a deal to get its budget through the Senedd in March. 'Longstanding commitment' A Welsh Conservative spokesperson said: "There is a vote today to "note" the draft budget. It is not the final vote which will be next month. The Welsh Conservative group will certainly be voting it down because we believe Labour have the wrong priorities. "Darren had a longstanding commitment in the US where he will be meeting a number of high-profile politicians. "Following the decision of Keir Starmer to allow around a hundred Labour activists to campaign abroad against President Trump, Darren's presence will help rebuild relationships between the US and Wales more broadly." Related topics Wales Welsh Conservatives Top stories Live . Police say death toll from car ramming at Vancouver festival has risen to 11 15488 viewing 15k viewing Images of Pope Francis's tomb released Published 6 hours ago The secret conclave that will determine the next Pope More to explore How the next Pope is chosen 'Kicking butt' or 'going too fast'? Trump voters reflect on 100 days Australia's universal healthcare is crumbling. Can it be saved? Virginia Giuffre remembered as 'fierce warrior against sexual abuse' What should Democrats do now? Everyone has a different answer Stranded killer whales 'must leave now' as rehoming options shrink Eighty years on, survivors and families remember horrors of Bergen Belsen YouTubers on how they made site work for them as it turns 20 Politics Essential: Get the latest news and analysis delivered to your inbox every weekday Elsewhere on the BBC Hollywood star, Andrew Garfield, uncovers his family history Panorama reveals how Lloyds Bank treated its customers On the frontline with the London Ambulance Service Your first look at the final series of Man Like Mobeen Most read 1 Greens call for single-sex guidance to be withdrawn 2 Drag Race and Pose star Jiggly Caliente dies aged 44 3 Images of Pope Francis's tomb released 4 Ginger Mr Darcy will break barriers, jokes Lowden 5 Mourning turns to anger in Iran after massive port explosion kills 40 6 Greenland not a piece of property, says PM after Trump threats 7 Community in shock over attack involving crossbow 8 A stunning reversal of fortunes in Canada's historic election 9 Arrests over paint thrown on London Marathon route 10 Dad of 14-year-old killed in M6 crash charged BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Home News Sport Earth Reel Worklife Travel Culture Future Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2025 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.