https://edition.cnn.com/2025/03/24/travel/yellowstone-national-park-new-thermal-vent/index.html
A new thermal steam vent is grabbing attention in ever-changing Yellowstone National Park | CNN CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Destinations Food & Drink News Stay Video More Destinations Food & Drink News Stay Video Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Destinations Food & Drink News Stay Video Follow CNN Travel World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Ad Feedback A new thermal steam vent is grabbing attention in ever-changing Yellowstone National Park By Associated Press 2 minute read Published
          10:27 PM EDT, Mon March 24, 2025 Link Copied! Follow: Volcanoes See your latest updates In this photo released by the USGS, a plume of steam is seen rising from a newly discovered thermal feature near Nymph Lake in Yellowstone National Park near Mammoth Hot Springs, Wyoming, on September 1, 2024. Mike Poland/USGS/AP AP — A new thermal vent spewing steam in the air at Yellowstone National Park is gaining attention, mainly because it’s visible from a road rather than any significant change in the park famous for its thousands of geysers, hot springs and bubbling mud pots. When Yellowstone’s roads open to car traffic in April, tourists will be able to view the new steam column from a pullout as long as the vent remains active. It’s located in an area about a mile (1.6 kilometers) north of the Norris Geyser Basin. The thermal feature was first spotted by scientists last summer and inspired them to trudge across a marsh and measure 171-degree (77-degree Celsius) steam venting from the base of a wooded hill. A thin coat of gray mud confirmed the vent was new, according to a recent online post by scientists with the Yellowstone Volcano Observatory overseen by the U.S. Geological Survey. Mike Poland, scientist in charge of the observatory, said Monday that such features are often forming and constantly changing in Yellowstone. “The feature itself is new. That there would be a new feature is, you know, mundane,” he said. “The noteworthy part … was just that it was so noticeable. But the sort of overall idea that there would be a new feature that formed is pretty normal.” Five backpackers trek along the shore of Arrigetch Creek, with Xanadu, Arial and Caliban Peaks in the background. Gates of the Arctic National Park, Brooks Range, Alaska. Patrick J. Endres/Corbis Documentary RF/Getty Images Related article The 15 least visited US national parks The new steam plume is located within a 200-foot (60-meter) area of warm ground and appears to be related to hot water that surfaced as a new feature 700 feet (215 meters) away in 2003. The plume diminished over the winter. Whether it will remain visible from afar this summer, or be stifled by water in the vent, remains to be seen, geologists say. Still, geological changes in Yellowstone draw interest because the park overlies a volcano that was responsible for powerful eruptions in the distant past. The volcano has had no lava eruption for 70,000 years and no major eruption for 631,000 years, however. The volcano’s magma chamber between 5 and 10 miles (8 and 16 kilometers) under the surface heats the underground water that bubbles up as the park’s famous hydrothermal features. Only between 10% and 30% of the chamber currently holds liquid magma. Despite Yellowstone’s sometimes dramatic geological events — including a hydrothermal explosion that hurled hot water and rocks and sent tourists running last summer — geologists emphasize there is no sign the volcano will erupt again any time soon. Yellowstone’s thermal features come and go, but the park’s most famous one, Old Faithful Geyser, is still going strong. “There’s so many thermal features. Not only do they come and go, but they change,” Poland said. Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Travel Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.