https://www.bbc.com/news/videos/cvgnlpdwd5no
Dog attack: Girl mauled by dog asked dad if she would die Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Girl mauled by dog asked dad if she was going to die "I am improving but every now and then when I see dogs, it is really scary," a girl who was mauled by a dog has said. Lilly was 10 when she was bitten in the face by a Staffordshire bull terrier cross breed outside of her family home in 2023. Her father Alex, from Bridgend, is now calling for pet insurance cover to be mandatory for all pet owners , which is not currently a legal requirement in the UK. The 39-year-old believes it should be required in the same way car insurance is, to cover things such as medical care, counselling and compensation. The UK government said it was working to explore measures. Video edited by Erin Lister 31 March 2025 Wales Dogs Share Save Watch: Can you spot a fake football shirt? Vintage football shirt expert, Daniel Rees, explains how to keep your money safe from fakes. 13 Apr 2025 Wales How a Welsh uni helps F1 star reach top speed Formula One season favourite Lando Norris is put through his paces at Swansea University. 12 Apr 2025 Wales 'Blaring' wildfire burns close to homes Crews have been battling wildfires across Wales, with firefighters described as "on their knees". 12 Apr 2025 Wales Watch: E-bike riders caught using police drone Police in Newport use a surveillance drone to spot a group of e-bikers on city streets. 10 Apr 2025 Wales Rugby fans react to Cardiff administration news The Welsh Rugby Union is in line to take over the regional side. 9 Apr 2025 Wales Watch: Massive wildfire filmed from above Firefighters are striving to get a huge blaze under control after it started four days ago. 9 Apr 2025 Wales Crews battle wildfires for third day Crews were called to three different fire fronts on Tuesday afternoon. 8 Apr 2025 Wales Hen finishes third in marathon after night of partying The bride-to-be wanted to do something memorable, and achieved that on her hen weekend. 7 Apr 2025 Wales 'Cleaning up after my kids now makes me money' Carys Harding says her "reset" social media content inspires others to tackle tasks around their homes. 5 Apr 2025 Wales Mountain leader has 'powerful' eerie experience Lauren Wood, a mountain leader, spotted the illusion while walking in Eryri. 5 Apr 2025 Wales 'Our home is not your tip' - anger at TikTok tourism People living near a Welsh forest react to scenes of rubbish and litter left by a surge in tourism. 4 Apr 2025 Wales Chris Packham says off-lead dogs endanger birds Birds that are disturbed during breeding season can abandon their nest, nature presenter says. 4 Apr 2025 Wales Buildings 'completely destroyed' in furniture store fire A small number of customer orders were destroyed, a spokesman for the furniture firm says. 4 Apr 2025 Wales Anglesey salt firm braced for Trump tariffs Halen Môn hopes it can continue to work with US companies after new tariffs are imposed. 3 Apr 2025 Wales Could cold water dipping help to tackle PTSD? Many people believe it that cold water swimming has a positive effect on their mental health and wellbeing. 3 Apr 2025 Wales 'It shocks me that people used to smoke in pubs' Eighteen years since the ban was introduced, many cannot imagine people smoking in pubs and bars. 2 Apr 2025 Wales Bodycam footage shows moment before PC attacked Richard Nodwell, 37, attacked Gwent Police officer Nathan Attwell, fracturing his cheekbone and nose. 1 Apr 2025 Wales Have you been pranked this April Fools'? People in Cardiff describe some of the pranks they have fallen for on April Fools' Day 1 Apr 2025 Wales Watch as firefighters tackle hillside blaze More than 30 firefighters tackle a hillside fire north of Cardiff, as it blazes into Monday evening. 1 Apr 2025 Wales Teacher captures aftermath of Myanmar earthquake Isabelle Willis was at her apartment during the earthquake and thought she was going to die. 31 Mar 2025 Wales British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.