https://english.ahram.org.eg/News/538163.aspx
Date and apple cake with salted toffee sauce - Sufra Dayma - Al-Ahram Weekly - Ahram Online Sunday, 27 April 2025 French | عربي Home Egypt Egypt  Home Politics Society Courts & Law Foreign Affairs Health Urban & Transport Defence Tourism War on Gaza Business Business  Home Economy Markets & Companies Energy Tech Opinion World World  Home Region International Africa War in Ukraine War in Sudan Arts & Culture Arts & Culture  Home Screens Music Visual Art Stage & Street Sports Sports  Home Egyptian Football Talents Abroad World National Teams Africa Omni sports Multimedia Life & Style Life & Style  Home Style Health Food City Lights Antiquities Antiquities  Home Ancient Egypt Greco-Roman Coptic Islamic Museums Books Books  Home Reviews News Heritage Heritage  Home Walks Folk Arts Heritage special Photo Heritage Inspiring Minds Multimedia Al-Ahram Weekly Al-Ahram Weekly  Home Egypt Economy World Opinion Culture Limelight Heritage Features Focus Living Sufra Dayma Entre nous Autos Travel Interviews Special Nakba remembered Art Cinema Exhibitions Lectures Theater Music and dance Sports COP27 Date and apple cake with salted toffee sauce Moushira Abdel-Malek , Tuesday 7 Jan 2025 Yields 10-12 servings Ingredients: 225 gm All-Purpose flour 1 tsp baking powder 1/2 tsp salt 1 cup light brown sugar 1/2 cup castor sugar 250 gm fresh, soft black dates; frozen, (thawed, peeled, pitted, halved) 2 large cooking apples (peeled, cored, coarsely grated) 4 large eggs (beaten) 2 tsp vanilla extract 225 gm butter (softened) 2 tsp ground cinnamon 1 tsp grated nutmeg Salted Toffee Sauce: 100 gm castor sugar 50 gm salted butter (cubed) 100 ml pouring cream Method: Lightly grease and dust the base and sides of a 20 x 30 centimetre rectangular cake tin or baking tray.  Preheat oven to 180 degrees C.  Purée the dates in an electric blender.  In a large mixing bowl, place the butter, eggs, vanilla, sugars and sift over; the combined flour, salt, baking powder and spices.  Beat everything together with an electric hand double whisker on high; for two to three minutes; to thoroughly blend.  Gently fold in puréed dates and grated apples.  Spoon mixture into the baking tin.  Level top with a flat spatula and bake in the middle of a preheated oven; for approximately 45-60 minutes; or when top is firm to the tip of a finger touch.  Remove from the oven and leave to cool off in tin.  Meanwhile, make the toffee sauce:  In a small saucepan, put the sugar and three tablespoonfuls of water, over medium-low heat, until sugar dissolves. Increase heat to medium-high and boil for a couple minutes, without stirring, until syrup turns into deep golden caramel colour.  Only swirl saucepan occasionally to prevent any formation of crystals around the inside edge.  Remove pan away from heat.  Allow to cool for a couple of minutes, then stir in the butter to melt.  Gradually whisk in the cream to make a glossy caramel sauce.  Remove cake out of its tin.  Slice and serve with the hot toffee sauce on top and a scoop of vanilla ice-cream aside (optional); or heavy cream instead; or serve plain. * A version of this article appears in print in the 9 January, 2025 edition of Al-Ahram Weekly Follow us on: Facebook Instagram Whatsapp Short link: Latest News CAF U20 Africa Cup of Nations fixtures (1st round, group stage) Live score: Egypt v South Africa (CAF U-20 Africa Cup of Nations) Egyptian film Life After Siham to screen at Cannes parallel section ACID Italy Serie A fixtures & results (34th matchday) Egyptian actresses May El-Ghety, May Calamawy join cast of new US production..... Egyptian-Norwegian artist Britt Boutros Ghali exhibits works in Berlin, Seoul Book Review: Pope Francis – the man who listened before he preached Efforts for restoring Gaza ceasefire should be intensified: El-Sisi to Hungarian..... All eyes turn to conclave as Pope Francis tomb opens to public Peruvian actors with Down syndrome tear down barriers in London's  show Most Viewed A massive explosion at Iranian port kills 8, injures around 750 China development contributes to world peace: Experts at Chinese Modernization..... Egyptian Players Abroad: Abdelmonem helps Nice win, Sam Morsy plays but Ipswich..... Egypt’s annual unemployment rate drops to 6.6 percent in 2024: CAPMAS Palestinian president Abbas appoints aide as potential successor English Premier League results & fixtures (34th matchday) Match facts: Newcastle United v Ipswich Town (English Premier League) Koller’s future at Ahly in doubt after Champions League exit Israel's 60-day blockade: Palestinians struggling to feed their families Israeli strike kills 10 including 5 children amid efforts to resume Gaza ceasefire Also In Sufra Dayma Shrimp in prune curry sauce Lemon parsley bean and vegetable salad Spaghetti with black olives, mushroom, anchovy chilli sauce Beef and vegetable stir fry with salted peanuts Koosa b’laban Chicken soup Indian chicken stew Vegetable beef strips fluffed rice Egypt War on Gaza Business Opinion World Arts & Culture Sports Life & Style Antiquities Books Heritage Multimedia Al-Ahram Weekly Work For Us About us © 2020 All Rights Reserved Ahram Online.