https://edition.cnn.com/2025/03/29/health/artificial-sweetener-sucralose-hunger-signals-wellness/index.html
Artificial sweetener surcralose confuses brain and increases hunger, study says | CNN CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships More Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Follow CNN World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Ad Feedback Health Food • 6 min read Artificial sweetener found in diet drinks linked to brain changes that increase appetite, study finds By Sandee LaMotte , CNN 6 minute read Updated
          12:14 PM EDT, Sat March 29, 2025 Link Copied! Follow: Chronic diseases See your latest updates Sucralose is a key ingredient in some artificial sugar substitutes. Aleksei Bezrukov/iStockphoto/Getty Images/File Get inspired by a weekly roundup on living well, made simple. Sign up for CNN’s Life, But Better newsletter for information and tools designed to improve your well-being . CNN — A growing body of evidence has increasingly linked diet sodas and other no- or low-calorie foods with weight gain — so much so that the World Health Organization issued an advisory in May 2023 saying not to use sugar substitutes for weight loss. “Replacing free sugars with non-sugar sweeteners does not help people control their weight long-term,” Dr. Francesco Branca, director of WHO’s department of nutrition and food safety, said at the time . Now, a new study may shed light on why consuming too much of the artificial sweetener sucralose could be counterproductive. Instead of the brain sending a signal to eat less, sucralose triggers an increase in appetite when consumed in a drink. “Sucralose activates the area in the brain that regulates hunger, and that activation, in turn, is linked to greater ratings of hunger,” said lead study author Dr. Katie Page, an associate professor of medicine and pediatrics and director of the Diabetes and Obesity Research Institute at the University of Southern California’s Keck School of Medicine in Los Angeles. In fact, people who drank water with sucralose said their appetite increased by nearly 20% compared with drinking water with table sugar, Page said. In the United States, sucralose is a key ingredient in some Splenda sugar substitutes. In Europe, sucralose is known as E955 and is found in sugar substitutes sold under the brand names Candys, Canderel Yellow, Cukren, Nevella, Splenda, SucraPlus, Sukrana and Zerocal. The study only investigated the impact of sucralose and did not research other popular artificials sweeteners such as aspartame , acesulfame-K and sodium saccharin . 5m3photos/Moment RF/Getty Images Related article Ultraprocessed foods make up to 70% of the US food supply. How to reduce your intake “This is a very high quality study, using state of the art methods and careful analysis,” said Dr. David Katz, a specialist in preventive and lifestyle medicine, via email. Katz, founder of the nonprofit True Health Initiative , a global coalition of experts dedicated to evidence-based lifestyle medicine, was not involved in the study. The authors interpreted their results carefully yet make a strong case that “non-caloric sweeteners, and sucralose specifically, interfere with normal appetite regulation in ways that could have adverse effects on weight control and health,” Katz said. A spokesperson for Heartland Food Products Group, which manufactures Splenda, said that low-calorie and zero-calorie sweeteners are backed by research and expert recommendations. “Low- or zero-calorie sweeteners like sucralose are recommended by healthcare professionals, food safety experts and credible health organizations for diabetes and weight management based on trusted scientific research showing that the impact of low- or zero-calorie sweeteners on body weight is similar to that of water, and that sweet-tasting products have decreased the want for additional sweets while also helping people manage weight, reduce intake of calories from added sugars, and manage blood sugar levels,” the spokesperson wrote via email. Study findings support prior research The idea that artificial sweeteners may be increasing hunger signals from the mammalian brain isn’t new — a prior study coauthored by Page  found women and people with obesity were especially sensitive. “Animal studies have hinted at some of these effects,” Katz said. However, “this is, to my knowledge, the most decisive study to date in humans of direct effects on the appetite center.” All cells in the body require glucose for energy. The brain is the biggest user, gobbling up to half of all sugars circulating in the blood. Nature, however,  designed the brain to respond to natural sugars such as glucose found in whole fruits and some vegetables. Artificial sweeteners, therefore, appear to confuse the brain, Page said, by sending signals of sweetness without delivering the needed calories the brain requires. Scientists have hypothesized that when those promised calories don’t arrive, the brain may send out a signal to eat more. Same people, three drinks The new study, published Wednesday in the journal Nature Metabolism, asked 75 people to consume one of three drinks on three separate occasions: plain water, water sweetened with table sugar (sucrose), and water sweetened with sucralose. During each visit, the research team tested participants’ fasting blood sugar levels, followed by a brain scan called Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging, or fMRI, which tracks blood flow to capture activity in different regions of the brain. “They came out of the scanner and consumed one of the three drinks, and went back into the scanner,” Page said. One glass contained 300 milliliters of water and 75 grams (about 2.5 ounces) of sugar (sucrose), which is the equivalent of a 16-ounce can of sugary soda, Page said. Another drink contained enough sucralose to match that sweetness. Sucralose is about 600 times sweeter than sugar , according to the US Food and Drug Administration. The third drink was plain water, which served as a control. 2F8BAYK Beef dripping or Tallow a rendered form of beef or mutton fat used in cooking or as a traditional shortening D and S Food Photography/Alamy Stock Photo Related article Robert F. Kennedy Jr. says beef tallow is healthier than seed oils. Is he right? During the brain scanning, Page and her team did another round of blood sampling at 10 minutes, 35 minutes and 120 minutes after consuming the drink and asked participants to rate their hunger level. “(The study) is particularly strong because it used repeated measures within the same participants and included different methods such as brain imaging, blood draws, and subjective ratings to test their hypothesis,” said Kyle Burger, a scientist at the nonprofit Monell Chemical Senses Center in Philadelphia, which investigates human senses of taste and smell. Burger was not involved in the study. Three possible explanations In addition to finding that drinks with sucralose increased the sensation of hunger by about 17%, Page and her team found increased connections to other parts of the brain responsible for controlling motivation. “Sucralose appears to affect your decision-making skills,” Page said. “For example, we found increased brain connectivity between the hypothalamus and the anterior cingulate cortex, which controls the risks and rewards of a decision.” In addition, blood tests showed sucralose had no effect on hormones the brain uses to tell when we are satisfied and no longer hungry, Page said. “There’s no signal, no signal at all,” she said. “There’s a sweetness signal, but there’s no hormone signal telling you you’re full. Sucralose doesn’t have an effect on those hormones.” Not everyone, however, may feel the combined effects of sucralose in the same way, Katz said. “Those with insulin resistance, for instance, may be especially prone to disruption of normal appetite control with sucralose,” he said. What to do? Recommendations on how to manage the body’s reactions to artificial sweeteners are currently complex, Page said. For example, the American Diabetes Association tells people with insulin resistance and diabetes to use no-calorie drinks and foods , but sparingly. “I’m an endocrinologist so I see patients for diabetes and obesity,” Page said. “I would never say drink or eat more sugar. “Instead, I tell my patients to not rely on non-caloric sweeteners as a substitute for sugar and try to reduce the overall intake of dietary sweeteners in general,” she said. Katz agreed, preferring to suggest a form of taste bud “rehab ” that can reduce overall use of sugars, no matter what their form. “A truly wholesome diet has little added sugar in the first place, and thus no sugar to ‘replace’ with sucralose and related compounds,” Katz said. Portrait child boy drinking water at home andreswd/E+/Getty Images Related article What your kids drink matters, this doctor says Just as many people have cut their use of salt, it’s possible to cut your use of sweeteners by teaching taste buds to desire fewer sweets, he said. Taste buds will respond by finding sugary foods that used to be delicious now cloyingly sweet, or in the case of sodium, much too salty, research has shown . Start out by finding hidden sources of sugar in foods you may not realize are sweetened, Katz told CNN in a prior interview. “If I asked you to boycott all the desserts in your life, you would probably rebel or fail,” Katz said. “But there is a massive amount of added sugar and sweeteners hiding in foods that are not sweet — in salad dressing, pasta sauce, bread, crackers, even salty chips.” By choosing products without sweeteners, he said, it’s possible to reduce a person’s daily intake of sugar or sweeteners “by a third, maybe even a half as many grams a day before we even lay a hand on anything that you actually expect to be sweet.” Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Health Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.