https://play.google.com/store/books/details/Mary_W_Shelley_Three_Gothic_Novels_Frankenstein_Ca?id=yzEHEAAAQBAJ
Three Gothic Novels: Frankenstein, Carmilla, Dracula by Mary W. Shelley, Joseph Sheridan Le Fanu, Bram Stoker - Books on Google Play Games Apps Books Kids google_logo Play Games Apps Books Kids none search help_outline Sign in with Google play_apps Library & devices payment Payments & subscriptions reviews My Play activity redeem Offers Play Pass Personalization in Play settings Settings Privacy Policy • Terms of Service Games Apps Books Kids Three Gothic Novels: Frankenstein, Carmilla, Dracula Mary W. Shelley · Joseph Sheridan Le Fanu · Bram Stoker Jan 2021 · Strelbytskyy Multimedia Publishing 3.8 star 157 reviews Ebook 772 Pages EGP 1.64 Buy Free sample Add to wishlist About this ebook arrow_forward A Gothic novel calls forth paradoxically thrilling feelings of horror and pleasure in the reader. These “dark” novels feature fictitious prose saturated with mysterious adventures, supernatural horrors, fantasy, and mysticism. Family curses, vampires, ghosts, and monsters frequently appear within the storylines. Gothic novels originated in 18th century England and are the precursors to the modern “horror” genre. Often the story is set in an old castle or building that had been built in the Gothic style. Thus, the name of the genre derives from the story's backdrop, which features prominently in the mood and action of the story. Frankenstein: A Modern Prometheus tells about the life and studies of Victor Frankenstein, a scientist who manages to harness the mystery of life and transform dead flesh into a living man. The man, however, is a monster and begins to pursue his creator. Dracula is a novel that has greatly impacted modern culture. It can be said to be the mother of the vampire genre of prose and television serials that are so popular in the 21st century. Carmilla is another vampire novel that, while lesser-known, was one of the first popular gothic novels to feature vampires. In it, the young Laura tries to fend off the predatory and romantic advances of a female vampire. Contents: 1. Mary W. Shelley: Frankenstein, or The Modern Prometheus 2. Joseph Sheridan Le Fanu: Carmilla 3. Bram Stoker: Dracula Mystery & thrillers Ratings and reviews Ratings and reviews aren’t verified info_outline arrow_forward Ratings and reviews aren’t verified info_outline 3.8 157 reviews 5 4 3 2 1 Fred A Miles more_vert Flag inappropriate December 11, 2022 wonderful！I love this book. Did you find this helpful? Yes No SubTwo Test more_vert Flag inappropriate October 1, 2023 Good Did you find this helpful? Yes No Aladeen Baker more_vert Flag inappropriate April 23, 2025 fine Did you find this helpful? Yes No See all reviews Rate this ebook Tell us what you think. Write a review Reading information expand_more Smartphones and tablets Install the Google Play Books app for Android and iPad/iPhone . It syncs automatically with your account and allows you to read online or offline wherever you are. Laptops and computers You can listen to audiobooks purchased on Google Play using your computer's web browser. eReaders and other devices To read on e-ink devices like Kobo eReaders, you'll need to download a file and transfer it to your device. Follow the detailed Help Center instructions to transfer the files to supported eReaders. More by Mary W. Shelley arrow_forward Frankenstein: "The Modern Prometheus" Mary W. Shelley Science fiction & fantasy 3.3 star EGP 230.59 Frankenstein, or The Modern Prometheus Mary W. Shelley Science fiction & fantasy 3.8 star EGP 1.64 Mathilda - Mary. W. Shelley Mary W. Shelley Fiction & literature EGP 108.22 Frankenstein Or, The Modern Prometheus: Frankenstein or, The Modern Prometheus: Mary W. Shelley's Creation of Dread Mary W. Shelley Self-help 3.7 star EGP 33.05 EGP 19.56 Similar ebooks arrow_forward The Judge's House Bram Stoker Fiction & literature 3.9 star EGP 1.64 The Picture of Dorian Gray Oscar Wilde Fiction & literature 4.4 star EGP 1.64 Five Weeks in a Balloon & A Journey into the Interior of the Earth. Illustrated Jules Verne Fiction & literature 4.1 star EGP 1.64 Frankenstein, or The Modern Prometheus Mary W. Shelley Science fiction & fantasy 3.8 star EGP 1.64 Google Play Play Pass Play Points Gift cards Redeem Refund policy Kids & family Parent Guide Family sharing Terms of Service Privacy About Google Play Developers Google Store All prices include VAT. Egypt (English)