https://www.express.co.uk/
Latest UK and World News, Sport and Comment | Express.co.uk Express. Home of the Daily and Sunday Express. Puzzles Horoscopes Express Rated Shop Paper Newsletters Login Register Your Account Newsletters Bookmarks Sign Out Uk Us 21 °C Find us on Facebook Follow us on WhatsApp Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Find us on Youtube Search HOME News Politics Royal Showbiz & TV Sport Finance Travel Life & Style Comment TRENDING Donald Trump Weather Meghan Markle Best VPN F1 Entertainment Express Newsletters Princess Kate Winter Fuel Payments Kemi Badenoch Migrants speak of ‘very nice’ life at swanky 4-star hotel paid for by you, the taxpayer EXCLUSIVE: Asylum seekers are being housed at an upscale hotel on the outskirts of London despite Labour's pledge to end the... OPINION 'This new plot to destroy Brexit shows just how much Labour hates Britain' Angela Rayner threatens to quit government after incredible fall out with Keir Starmer The Deputy Prime Minister's departure would be Keir Starmer's most damning blow yet. Locals in UK village rage as £40,000 'great wall' erected - 'It's disgusting!' The 2.1-metre-high fence was put up to keep people away from a road. The real reason why Volodymyr Zelensky didn't wear a suit to Pope Francis's funeral Volodymyr Zelensky was one of a few mourners who donned an outfit which strayed from... Angela Rayner threatens to quit government after incredible fall out with Keir Starmer The Deputy Prime Minister's departure would be Keir Starmer's most damning blow yet. Locals in UK village rage as £40,000 'great wall' erected - 'It's disgusting!' The 2.1-metre-high fence was put up to keep people away from a road. The real reason why Volodymyr Zelensky didn't wear a suit to Pope Francis's funeral Volodymyr Zelensky was one of a few mourners who donned an outfit which strayed from... Royal See latest updates Meghan 'desperate' for truce with William and Kate to 'appear like a saviour' - insider Live-event Meghan Markle and Prince Harry left reeling by William's new hire Late Queen’s simple favourite sandwich she ate every day for 90 years John Cleese 'depressed' as he makes devastating death confession Monty Python star John Cleese opened up about losing his comedy co-stars, admitting he... World Snooker Championship ref embarrasses himself as Ronnie O'Sullivan's rival steps in Inside the tiny 'peaceful' UK village that Beyoncé and Jay-Z could move to Amanda Owen breaks down in tears over ex Clive’s latest move Our Yorkshire Farm star Amanda Owen called it quits with her husband Clive in 2022... Comedian who died 'almost penniless' after falling out with TV bosses Duncan Norvelle's financial circumstances have been unveiled following his tragic... Blue Peter's Peter Purves breaks silence on Valerie Singleton affair with 8-word admission Peter Purves has addressed his "one-night" affair with Blue Peter co-star Valerie... Urgent appeal after British tourist disappears after night out in Spain Moment Prince William showed he will be 'ideal king' at Pope Francis funeral I tried the £16 viral Ryanair cabin bag and I couldn't believe how much it held Amanda Owen breaks down in tears over ex Clive’s latest move Our Yorkshire Farm star Amanda Owen called it quits with her husband Clive in 2022... Comedian who died 'almost penniless' after falling out with TV bosses Duncan Norvelle's financial circumstances have been unveiled following his tragic... Blue Peter's Peter Purves breaks silence on Valerie Singleton affair with 8-word admission Peter Purves has addressed his "one-night" affair with Blue Peter co-star Valerie... TV & Radio See latest updates CNN airs 'history making' breaking news – and it's devastating for Donald Trump GB News paused for breaking news as host abruptly announces 'the end for Jess Phillips’ 'Real reason' Britain's Got Talent Teddy Magic 'pulled out' mid-show as fans want answers The £45k school Princess Charlotte could go to - and her royal ‘best friend’ went there The daughter of Prince William and Princess Kate could attend a very prestigious school in Ascot that is relatively close to their home in Windsor. Live-event Snooker scores LIVE: Ronnie O'Sullivan match updates and Judd Trump vs Shaun Murphy All the latest updates from the Crucible after a host of top names were dumped out. Katie Price unveils dramatically different face after splashing out on '£10k' facelift Katie Price has shown off a very glamorous look in a new video after reportedly... Lib Dems try to woo Tories ‘appalled’ at pact with Reform as election wipeout looms The party is hopeful of picking up voters disillusioned by a rumoured Tory pact with... Daily Express Beauty fans rave about 'best eye cream I've tried' that gives 'filler effect' Live-event Liverpool title LIVE: Reds on cusp of huge Anfield party as Tottenham blown away Live-event Snooker scores LIVE: Ronnie O'Sullivan match updates and Judd Trump vs Shaun Murphy All the latest updates from the Crucible after a host of top names were dumped out. Katie Price unveils dramatically different face after splashing out on '£10k' facelift Katie Price has shown off a very glamorous look in a new video after reportedly... Lib Dems try to woo Tories ‘appalled’ at pact with Reform as election wipeout looms The party is hopeful of picking up voters disillusioned by a rumoured Tory pact with... Politics See latest updates Polling guru John Curtice makes bombshell prediction about Kemi Badenoch POLL Can Labour be trusted with Brexit? OPINION Unclear Keir Starmer is a coward who needs to be man enough to concede on key issue Celebrity Traitors full cast pictured as they're whisked to secret location The stars of Celebrity Traitors have been taken to the set to begin filming the show. Meghan Markle and Prince Harry defended by close friend - 'amazing couple' The three words that prove Trump knows Putin is playing the world over peace OPINION Nigel Farage and Margaret Thatcher can teach this country a valuable lesson Certain aspects of the life and times of Mrs Thatcher when set against the experiences... Beauty fans praise £58 'light as air' moisturiser as 'holy grail' for oily skin Skincare buffs are over the moon with the new gel face cream that has launched just in... BBC’s Laura Kuenssberg leaves viewers with same furious complaint Laura Kuenssberg viewers were left very unimpressed as she returned to her BBC show... Tech Another smart new Sky TV rival is coming to the UK and it's totally free to watch UK storm maps show deluge of rain battering most of England and Scotland - check your area King Charles issues heartbreaking statement as he hits out at 'dreadful attack' We've found Princess Kate's exact sandals with over 20% off Cornwall's beautiful little seaside town with 2-mile beach where house prices are falling OPINION Nigel Farage and Margaret Thatcher can teach this country a valuable lesson Certain aspects of the life and times of Mrs Thatcher when set against the experiences... Beauty fans praise £58 'light as air' moisturiser as 'holy grail' for oily skin Skincare buffs are over the moon with the new gel face cream that has launched just in... BBC’s Laura Kuenssberg leaves viewers with same furious complaint Laura Kuenssberg viewers were left very unimpressed as she returned to her BBC show... STREAMING Tom Hanks World War 2 epic sequel announced with Stephen Graham 'Best' Stephen King movie is streaming on 2 platforms - but not Netflix 'Best movie of all time' is now streaming on Netflix Dog trainer names ‘friendliest dog on the planet' — but it’s not for first-time owners A dog trainer has named what they say is the most friendly breed of dog 'on the planet', but it's not the best choice for first-time or inexperienced owners. Antiques Road Trip expert rages 'I'm not having it' as 'rule break' sparks huge loss Antiques Road Trip star Danny Sebastian was left raging after a last minute auction... Shoppers turn to gadget that 'extends life of fruit and veg' while stopping fridge smells This smart device can detect how much you open your fridge and it sends the... Top 10 best thriller novels of all time — and number one is a lesser-known gem If you enjoy thriller novels, Goodreads' list of the top 10 thrillers of all time... Ad Feature 10 ways to make the most out of your retirement Southport attack victim's dad finishes London Marathon in incredible tribute to daughter UK hot weather forecast as Britain to be warmer than Ibiza - see maps Waterproof outdoor garden lights are 'easy to install and look fantastic' Footage of Belfast rap group telling crowd 'Kill your MP!' assessed by police Antiques Road Trip expert rages 'I'm not having it' as 'rule break' sparks huge loss Antiques Road Trip star Danny Sebastian was left raging after a last minute auction... Shoppers turn to gadget that 'extends life of fruit and veg' while stopping fridge smells This smart device can detect how much you open your fridge and it sends the... Top 10 best thriller novels of all time — and number one is a lesser-known gem If you enjoy thriller novels, Goodreads' list of the top 10 thrillers of all time... Life & Style See latest updates Japanese maples will wilt and die if gardeners do 1 common gardening task in spring Squirrels will never enter your garden if you spread 1 natural item they ‘cannot tolerate’ House flies will stay away from your home if you have 5 flowers that 'repulse' them Wrexham could make four big signings after promotion including Premier League icon The Welsh outfit earned promotion to the second tier on Saturday evening. Jet2 flight forced to divert mid-flight to kick off disruptive passengers Man Utd player ratings vs Bournemouth: Two 3/10s as late drama prevents 16th Prem defeat Eat more bananas and broccoli to help reduce serious condition These foods are packed with potassium, helping them slash blood pressure. Sky News viewers ‘switch off’ over Donald Trump’s ‘disrespectful’ act at Pope funeral Sky News was airing live coverage of Pope Francis' funeral from Rome, with Donald... Devastating missiles rain on UK in chilling simulation after 'Ukraine wake-up call' Russia's invasion of Ukraine has been a 'wake-up call' for the UK, which has now... Films Goodfellas fans are only now realising iconic scene was 'totally improvised' Sausages will be crispier and juicier if you do 1 simple task before air frying them Meghan Markle fans can't get over Lilibet's accent in adorable new video - 'Beautiful' Lakeland's Spring Savings Event sees discounts on steamers, cleaners and G-tech devices Village 'worst-affected' by HS2 is cut in half by massive 700m train tunnel Eat more bananas and broccoli to help reduce serious condition These foods are packed with potassium, helping them slash blood pressure. Sky News viewers ‘switch off’ over Donald Trump’s ‘disrespectful’ act at Pope funeral Sky News was airing live coverage of Pope Francis' funeral from Rome, with Donald... Devastating missiles rain on UK in chilling simulation after 'Ukraine wake-up call' Russia's invasion of Ukraine has been a 'wake-up call' for the UK, which has now... Sport See latest updates Chris Eubank Jr beats Conor Benn in controversial fashion as rivals produce epic fight Conor Benn shows true colours after losing to Chris Eubank Jr and picks his next fight Antonio Rudiger faces ban after launching missile at ref as Barcelona beat Real Madrid Labour's shocking Brexit betrayal as Rachel Reeves admits free movement plot The Chancellor has finally confessed that the Government is negotiating a youth mobility scheme with the EU despite promises they would not. Bleach won’t remove toilet rust but 2 natural ingredients can erase it in just 5 minutes Rust often builds up at the bottom of the toilet bowl, making it look unsightly, but... Jeremy Kyle's telling response to celebs he 'hadn't heard from in years' after TV comeback Jeremy Kyle has shared a brutal response to fellow celebs who recently contacted him... BBC star John Parrott responds to John Higgins dig as Judd Trump comes out swinging Express Sport brings you a round-up of the latest news and views from the World... Britain's Got Talent in chaos as contestant suddenly pulls out mid-show Shocking gamble Nazi forces took in WW2 to attack France, Belgium and Luxenbourg Horror as two boys stabbed on London street Live-event London Marathon updates, route, best places to watch and full list of celebs running Bleach won’t remove toilet rust but 2 natural ingredients can erase it in just 5 minutes Rust often builds up at the bottom of the toilet bowl, making it look unsightly, but... Jeremy Kyle's telling response to celebs he 'hadn't heard from in years' after TV comeback Jeremy Kyle has shared a brutal response to fellow celebs who recently contacted him... BBC star John Parrott responds to John Higgins dig as Judd Trump comes out swinging Express Sport brings you a round-up of the latest news and views from the World... Celebrity News See latest updates What happened to Jiggly Caliente? Tributes paid as Drag Race star dies at 44 Devastating question Naga Munchetty was asked about husband before sterilisation heartache Harry Potter icon welcomes second child after girlfriend's secret pregnancy WASPI update as campaigners face 'waiting game' for judicial review The Ombudsman previously suggested the WASPI women should get payouts up to £2,950. Brian May heartbreaking admission over Freddie Mercury auction 'Can't look!' One thing everyone was saying about the RAF in the wake of the Miracle of Dunkirk Goodfellas fans are only now realising iconic scene was 'totally improvised' Goodfellas is commonly regarded as a cinematic masterpiece, and some film buffs are... Bank increases interest on savings account to 4.55% and earns 'excellent' rating The savings deal will be "attractive" to those looking to lock their money away for a... I found a coffee cake recipe made in the air fryer that's so simple and full of flavour If you're not a coffee cake purist, I highly recommend trying these individual coffee... Gaming Nintendo Switch 2 games line-up could get even better following latest 'leak' One fatal miscalculation that allowed Hitler to rise to power in Germany Only one in four people can find the ‘odd-one-out' number sequence London Marathon crashed by protest as police wrestle paint throwers from Tower Bridge MoD investigates major security breach involving leaked special forces IDs online Goodfellas fans are only now realising iconic scene was 'totally improvised' Goodfellas is commonly regarded as a cinematic masterpiece, and some film buffs are... Bank increases interest on savings account to 4.55% and earns 'excellent' rating The savings deal will be "attractive" to those looking to lock their money away for a... I found a coffee cake recipe made in the air fryer that's so simple and full of flavour If you're not a coffee cake purist, I highly recommend trying these individual coffee... Finance See latest updates HMRC urges people working from home 'don't get caught out' in new tax warning The safe haven asset investors are flocking to - should you invest? Drivers of these popular vehicles face 'over £7,000' car tax - check if you are hit Tory nightmare as major donor defects to Reform and says more will follow After resigning his Conservative membership, the billionaire has pledged £1m to help Nigel Farage. Nigel Benn didn't blink when asked if son should take Chris Eubank Jr rematch Chris Eubank Jr and Conor Benn delivered a classic bout in London on Saturday night... Residents in pretty UK village hit out at council as travellers move in EXCLUSIVE: The picturesque village of Felmersham in Bedfordshire could see some of its... London Marathon 2025 route map: Interactive guide and best places to watch race A record-breaking amount of runners are set to take part in the London Marathon. Food I tried Smirnoff's new Miami Peach spirit - it brings the summer vibes Clean the inside of the washing machine with 1 common household ingredient Jiggly Caliente dead: RuPaul’s Drag Race star dies at 44 just days after leg amputation Nigel Benn didn't blink when asked if son should take Chris Eubank Jr rematch Chris Eubank Jr and Conor Benn delivered a classic bout in London on Saturday night... Residents in pretty UK village hit out at council as travellers move in EXCLUSIVE: The picturesque village of Felmersham in Bedfordshire could see some of its... London Marathon 2025 route map: Interactive guide and best places to watch race A record-breaking amount of runners are set to take part in the London Marathon. Music See latest updates Billy Idol - 'I gave up drugs and was repaid in love' Mick Jagger's harsh verdict on The Beatles' live performances Top 10 Paul Simon songs ranked - Call Me Al beaten to No. 1 by a classic Andy Murray tells tennis stars 'you don't have to play' as retired Brit wades into debate Andy Murray has had his say on a divisive talking point in the tennis world. Fellow Epstein survivor reveals Virginia Giuffre's struggles during Prince Andrew lawsuit Japanese maples will wilt and die if gardeners do 1 common gardening task in spring The world's biggest clock tower that cost £11bn and makes Big Ben look tiny The structure is enormous and features a five-star hotel, shopping mall and car park... Putin 'immediately breaks Easter truce' launching hundreds of savage attacks in Ukraine Vladimir Putin announced a so-called Easter truce last night from 6pm until the end of... Finance expert says don't make this mortgage mistake as thousands overpaying £400 a month Personal finance expert Aaron Peake says one mistake can leave you paying more than... Tennis Joao Fonseca 'angry' after missing chance to cause big upset at Madrid Open Neo-Nazis celebrate Hitler's birthday at pub in UK town - 'Disgraceful!' Real reason Prince William went to Pope's funeral - and what it means for his royal future Broken heart syndrome explained - how extreme grief changes the shape of your heart Hot weather maps show 25C scorcher to hit England - full list of 9 hottest counties The world's biggest clock tower that cost £11bn and makes Big Ben look tiny The structure is enormous and features a five-star hotel, shopping mall and car park... Putin 'immediately breaks Easter truce' launching hundreds of savage attacks in Ukraine Vladimir Putin announced a so-called Easter truce last night from 6pm until the end of... Finance expert says don't make this mortgage mistake as thousands overpaying £400 a month Personal finance expert Aaron Peake says one mistake can leave you paying more than... Tech See latest updates Everyone with a PayPal account put on red alert and urged to follow 10 new rules Eubank Jr v Benn free live stream 'risk' - do not make these costly mistakes tonight Ditch your dish and get ultimate Sky TV upgrade at a surprisingly low price Kemi Badenoch insists she’s ‘doing fine’ with donors despite £1m defection blow The Tory leader suffered another blow this morning as a big name Tory donor switched loyalties to Reform UK. Marcus Rashford gets pelters for turning out at public event hours after Aston Villa loss Marcus Rashford has faced backlash after missing Aston Villa's FA Cup semi-final. The 'wild card candidate' that could succeed Pope Francis but one 1 detail may stop him EXCLUSIVE: A cardinal only recently appointed by Pope Francis could be a "wild card"... Putin goads Trump with new onslaught on Ukraine hours after 'doesn't want peace' warning Russian forces hit Ukraine with more drone strikes overnight after Donald Trump... Science NASA scientists left baffled by eerie 'Skull Hill' on Mars Conor Benn shows true colours as he explains what was said after grabbing Chris Eubank Sr UK's incredible Petrifying Well phenomenon that can turn objects into stone 'Bodies everywhere' as 11 killed after car rams into crowd in major city Another smart new Sky TV rival is coming to the UK and it's totally free to watch Marcus Rashford gets pelters for turning out at public event hours after Aston Villa loss Marcus Rashford has faced backlash after missing Aston Villa's FA Cup semi-final. The 'wild card candidate' that could succeed Pope Francis but one 1 detail may stop him EXCLUSIVE: A cardinal only recently appointed by Pope Francis could be a "wild card"... Putin goads Trump with new onslaught on Ukraine hours after 'doesn't want peace' warning Russian forces hit Ukraine with more drone strikes overnight after Donald Trump... Travel See latest updates The incredible little city that gets over 3,300 hours of sunshine every year The little UK market town so pretty it could be in the Cotswolds but it’s 80 miles away Brits in these European countries risk £2,560 fine if they don't pack 1 item in boot Meghan Markle explains why Netflix show was not filmed on her sprawling Montecito estate Prince Harry and Meghan Markle live on a sprawling estate in Montecito with their... How Elton John's daily phone calls helped save life of fellow Brit star Major supermarket giving out food for free - check how you can take advantage Man finds 'cheapest bar in Benidorm' – price of pint floors him Harry loves exploring Benidorm and he was stunned when he was told how much it was to... Sky News’ Trevor Phillips leaves Labour minister squirming ‘Not helpful!’ Sky News anchor Trevor Phillips attempted to skewer Labour MP Pat McFadden on the EU's... Boris Johnson rages at Donald Trump's 'capitulation' to Russia - 'Putin will attack again' Boris Johnson says it is time to take the boot off the neck of the Ukrainians and put... Personal Finance HMRC urges people working from home 'don't get caught out' in new tax warning Scrambled eggs will be the creamiest if you switch one ingredient Naga Munchetty's debilitating 32-year health battle as 'sterilisation the only option' Home Bargains item that left my air fryer sparkling in minutes - and it only costs 99p Man finds 'cheapest bar in Benidorm' – price of pint floors him Harry loves exploring Benidorm and he was stunned when he was told how much it was to... Sky News’ Trevor Phillips leaves Labour minister squirming ‘Not helpful!’ Sky News anchor Trevor Phillips attempted to skewer Labour MP Pat McFadden on the EU's... Boris Johnson rages at Donald Trump's 'capitulation' to Russia - 'Putin will attack again' Boris Johnson says it is time to take the boot off the neck of the Ukrainians and put... Health See latest updates Oncology dietitian warns one drink can 'increase cancer risk' – it's not coffee Sleep experts say there's one position that's best for your health Doctor's 'ultimate breakfast' to cut cholesterol and inflammation Full list of people who can get Blue Badge disabled parking permit A Blue Badge is a disabled parking permit that allows people with disabilities to park closer to their destination Chris Eubank Sr's first words to son in emotional moment after beating Conor Benn The pair squared off in an epic on Saturday night. Pope Francis' tomb pictured for first time since pontiff's Vatican funeral It is rare for a pope to be buried outside the Vatican, and Francis is the first to do... I tried to make ‘perfectly crispy’ microwave bacon without a pan in just 45 seconds I made microwave bacon by putting this 45-second microwave bacon recipe to the test at... Chris Eubank Sr's first words to son in emotional moment after beating Conor Benn The pair squared off in an epic on Saturday night. Pope Francis' tomb pictured for first time since pontiff's Vatican funeral It is rare for a pope to be buried outside the Vatican, and Francis is the first to do... I tried to make ‘perfectly crispy’ microwave bacon without a pan in just 45 seconds I made microwave bacon by putting this 45-second microwave bacon recipe to the test at... SEARCH CONNECT WITH US Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Snapchat Check our YouTube channel Subscribe to our rss feed TODAY'S PAPER Sunday, 27th April 2025 See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive. News UK World Politics Royal US Weather Science History Weird Nature Sunday Obituaries Latest News Brexit European Union Theresa May Angela Merkel Donald Trump The Queen Kate Middleton Meghan Markle Diesel Cancer Diabetes Dementia YouTube InYourArea mynewsassistant Showbiz & TV TV & Radio Celebrity News Sport Football Tennis F1 Boxing UFC Rugby Cricket Golf NFL Racing NBA Comment Express Comment Columnists Finance City & Business Personal Finance The Crusader Travel Travel News UK Europe America Africa Asia Australia Cruise City breaks Beach Holidays Activity Holidays Express Rated Best VPN Best Sky Deals Best Mattress Best Dating Sites Best UK Broadband Deals Freeview Samsung Sky Android Apple Black Friday Entertainment Films Music Books Theatre Gaming Express Wins Life & Style Diets Style Health Garden Food Property Life Cars Tech Beauty Box Subscription EXPRESS.CO.UK Play Express Wins Apps Puzzles Horoscopes Partner Stories Shop Hopsmore Beer Club Paper Sitemap Site Archive About Us Social Media Journalists How to Complain Report a Tech Issue Advertising Affiliate advertising Cookies Settings Privacy Policy AI Notice Cookie Policy Terms & Conditions Community Standards Developed by Netro42 Syndication and Licensing Clarifications and Corrections IPSO Regulated Copyright ©2025 Express Newspapers. "Daily Express" is a registered trademark. All rights reserved. Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express? YES NO