https://edition.cnn.com/2025/04/24/tech/motorola-new-razr-phones-perplexity-ai/index.html
Motorola’s iconic flip phone gets an AI reboot | CNN Business CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Business Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos More Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos Follow CNN Business World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Markets DOW S&P 500 NASDAQ Hot Stocks Fear & Greed Index ----- is driving the US market Latest Market News Tariffs and stock market volatility are clouding spring home shopping season Millennials are giving Gen Z advice for their first potential recession How Trump’s 145% China tariffs could crush American small businesses: ‘There’s no facility here that makes what we need’ Hot Stocks ----- is driving the US market Something isn't loading properly. Please check back later. Ad Feedback Business Tech • 4 min read Motorola’s iconic flip phone gets an AI reboot By Lisa Eadicicco , CNN 4 minute read Updated
          1:28 PM EDT, Thu April 24, 2025 Link Copied! Follow: AI See your latest updates The Razr Ultra (pictured) is part of Motorola’s new foldable phone lineup, which also includes the Razr Plus and Razr. Motorola New York CNN — Motorola on Thursday debuted new versions of its Razr flip phone with artificial intelligence-powered features from its own AI technology as well as that of several companies, including Perplexity, Meta and Microsoft and Google. The announcement comes as Google takes the courtroom after a federal judge found that the search giant holds a monopoly in the search market. This has stoked concerns that it could similarly end up controlling the AI industry. The prominent placement of Google’s search engine on Android phones helped it achieve that monopoly status, court filings say . But the new Razr, Razr Plus and Razr Ultra phones, which launch on May 15, are said to be the first phones with Perplexity’s AI app preinstalled – potentially pointing to a future in which Google shares more of the spotlight with its rivals. Perplexity is an AI-powered search engine and research tool that is available on the web and through an app. “It’s a big day for the future of smartphones,” Aravind Srinivas, CEO of Perplexity, said during a Motorola press event Wednesday. Like Apple (AAPL) and Samsung, Motorola is pushing AI as the major selling point of its new phones. But unlike those two companies, Motorola’s phones feature a cocktail of AI models and services from several different providers. It’s not unusual for phone makers to partner with other service providers. For example, Apple works with OpenAI to integrate ChatGPT’s capabilities into Siri, and Samsung partners with Google to power some of the AI features on its Galaxy phones. But incorporating technology from four companies in this way is rare. “We are seeing around 30% of people at least are using four different brands in AI (on) their phones,” Maria Jose Martin, director of North American product marketing for Motorola, told CNN. Motorola’s new flip phones include AI tools that can do things like analyze what’s on a phone’s screen to provide suggestions and summarize notifications. For example, if a person is browsing Pinterest for birthday party ideas, the phone’s Next Move feature, which incorporates Perplexity’s technology, might use recommend generating an image that can be used on a party invitation. The Razr Ultra (pictured) is part of Motorola’s new foldable phone lineup, which also includes the Razr Plus and Razr. Motorola The Razr Ultra, the most expensive phone of the trio, can trigger its AI assistant by recognizing when a user is looking at it rather than requiring a person to tap a button or say a wake word. This feature, which can be turned off, works only when the phone is partially folded and propped open. Google’s Gemini assistant is also included on the phone. The search giant showed at Motorola’s press event how users will be able to do things like use the AI helper to generate a podcast outlining sights to see during a vacation based on their preferences, or have Gemini search through Google Photos for a specific image. Motorola’s new phones will also have Meta’s Llama AI model integrated by default, making it the first phone maker to do so, according to Meta (META) . The technology will be used to summarize phone notifications. Microsoft’s Copilot assistant will also be included on the devices. But there’s one company that’s notably missing: OpenAI. When asked why tech from the maker of ChatGPT wasn’t included along with that of its biggest rivals, Allison Yi, head of Motorola’s North American product portfolio, told CNN the company looked for technology that excels in particular use cases that “complement” Motorola’s own AI. Perplexity, she says, is known for its research capabilities, while Microsoft’s Copilot specializes in boosting productivity. Motorola’s Razr Ultra includes AI software from Perplexity, Meta, Microsoft and Google. Lisa Eadicicco/CNN Motorola’s announcement comes at a critical time for both Android and the broader consumer electronics industry. Google was grilled in the courtroom this week during hearings meant to remedy the findings in a federal court last year that determined the company holds an illegal monopoly in search. The government proposed breaking off Android from Google or taking measures to prevent the company from giving its search engine preferential treatment on its own platforms , like Android. Lee-Anne Mulholland, Google’s vice president of regulatory affairs, said in an April 20 blog post that the Department of Justice’s proposal would make it more difficult for users to access their preferred services. She called the lawsuit “a backwards-looking case at a time of intense competition and unprecedented innovation.” Google plans to appeal the decision. At the same time, the US tech industry is grappling with high tariffs on imports, particularly those from China, where many tech products are made. That threatens to raise the prices of new products. So far, Motorola’s Razr lineup is not only priced similarly to last year’s phones but what’s considered typical for premium phones with foldable displays. The Razr Ultra costs $1,300, while the Razr Plus is priced at $1,000 and the Razr costs $700. Martin at Motorola points to the flexible supply chain of Motorola’s parent company Lenovo as a benefit in helping the phone maker navigate the uncertainty of tariffs, adding that being able to distribute phone production in different locations could minimize the impact to consumers. “What we are doing is trying to do our best to react fast to the market changes to have less impact in price positioning, or anything that could affect consumers,” she said. Related Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback CNN Business Videos CNN Video This week’s Middle East business news: From Trump’s Gulf tour to mega energy deals 1:55 Apr 25, 2025 CNN Video The ‘life-saving’ gift that Beyoncé’s grandmother passed down to her 3:21 Apr 25, 2025 CNN Video He bought gold at Costco. He’s not cashing in yet 1:58 Apr 25, 2025 Clipped From Video Video Opportunities abound for some in Swiss watchmaking 3:37 Apr 25, 2025 Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Business Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Business Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in real time, except for the S&P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes. All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor’s and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.