https://edition.cnn.com/2023/02/15/success/layoff-announcement-social-media-explainer/index.html
How to announce you’ve been laid off on social media | CNN Business CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Business Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos More Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos Follow CNN Business World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Markets DOW S&P 500 NASDAQ Hot Stocks Fear & Greed Index ----- is driving the US market Latest Market News Tariffs and stock market volatility are clouding spring home shopping season Millennials are giving Gen Z advice for their first potential recession How Trump’s 145% China tariffs could crush American small businesses: ‘There’s no facility here that makes what we need’ Hot Stocks ----- is driving the US market Something isn't loading properly. Please check back later. Ad Feedback Ad Feedback You’ve been laid off. Here’s what to post on social media, and what to leave out By Jeanne Sahadi , CNN 4 minute read Updated
          4:04 PM EST, Wed February 15, 2023 Link Copied! Video Ad Feedback Layoffs are making headlines. What's really going on in the job market 01:41 - Source:
            
                CNN Business Layoffs are making headlines. What's really going on in the job market 01:41 • 
                CNN Business Career 16 videos Video Ad Feedback Layoffs are making headlines. What's really going on in the job market 01:41 Now playing - Source:
            
                CNN Business Video Ad Feedback People are revealing their salaries to this TikTok star. Would you? 03:04 Now playing - Source: CNN Business Video Ad Feedback 'America's job machine is firing on all cylinders': Romans on the June jobs report 04:41 Now playing - Source: CNNBusiness Video Ad Feedback Beyoncé's single dubbed anthem for 'Great Resignation' 03:41 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Walgreens Boots Alliance CEO: 'I took pay cuts' to advance career 02:13 Now playing - Source: CNN Business Video Ad Feedback 94% of women executives have this in common 03:55 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Apple's CEO responds to evolving workplace dynamics 01:29 Now playing - Source:
            
                CNN Business Video Ad Feedback The UK is testing out 4-day work weeks. Here's why it matters 02:33 Now playing - Source: CNNBusiness Video Ad Feedback History-making NASA astronaut addresses lack of gender equality in space industry 02:54 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Scott Galloway predicts what the workplace will look like post-pandemic 01:43 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Musk's Tesla stance is 'polar opposite' of Twitter's policy 02:26 Now playing - Source: CNNBusiness Video Ad Feedback Workers consider cost of commute: 'It doesn't make sense for me' 02:57 Now playing - Source: CNNBusiness Video Ad Feedback Meet the 100-year-old man who's worked at the same company for 84 years 02:08 Now playing - Source: CNN Business Video Ad Feedback Watch what this Kawasaki factory in Nebraska did to attract workers 04:01 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Are you considering going back to your old job? Watch this first 03:53 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Where are all the workers? Here are four reasons behind the labor shortage 03:32 Now playing - Source: CNN See More Videos New York CNN — If ever you’ve been swept up in a mass layoff , among the many unwelcome tasks on your new to-do list is how and when to tell people you lost your job . Often, the go-to place to alert your professional network has been social media like LinkedIn , Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and others. But the way you deliver the message matters if your goal is to set yourself up well for new opportunities. Take a little time before posting: You don’t need to go public right away. “Take time to digest the fact that you no longer have a job,” said career coach Aneri Desai, who works primarily with immigrants. “Take your time to understand your situation.” If you’re upset, tell your partner, your friend or your pillow. Just don’t post your fury or bitterness online. Adobe Stock Related article Too many companies botch mass layoffs. Here's how they should approach them Consider a “soft” announcement first: If you’re not sure yet what you’re going to do — or even whether you want to stay in the same career — you can put up an initial “soft” post just to let people know your job was eliminated, Desai noted. It’s okay to say “Not sure yet what my next move will be, but stay tuned. I will reach out when I’m clearer on next steps.” This can be an especially useful move if your company’s layoffs are making headlines and you’re being bombarded with messages from friends and colleagues asking if you were affected. Keep it short: Whether you’ve worked at a place for five years or 25 years, you could probably write a book about your experiences. But please don’t. Shorter is best — a few paragraphs at most. “Don’t use all the characters you can. You want people to read it,” said career coach Marlo Lyons, author of “Wanted: A New Career.” Gratitude is good, but also focus on your accomplishments: If genuine, express appreciation for your mentors and colleagues, and the opportunities you had at your job. But don’t spend most of your post thanking people, Desai said. Adobe Stock Related article Getting laid off? Know your rights “So many people put the spotlight on ‘how lucky I was to work with this team’ but they miss out on giving credit to themselves,” Desai said. “Toot your horn.” By that, she means it’s important to note some of the big ways you added value to your company: for example, how you automated and expedited the claims process at your employer, making the experience easier and faster for the 50,000 clients the company served last year. Be specific about what you want and your skills: When you are ready to look for a new job and receive help from your network or hear from recruiters, your post should be “very explicit,” Lyons said. Detail the hard and soft skills you will bring to a new employer. Specify which field or set of related fields you want to be in ( like sales, account management, business development); what role titles you’re interested in (e.g., vice president-level positions, senior manager); whether you’d prefer to work remotely or hybrid; and any other details that will help people help you. Extend the reach of your post: You want as many people to see your post as possible. So you might tag it #openforwork, a hashtag often used on LinkedIn , Desai suggested. You also might tag people whom you are thanking in your post. But this may not be the right move for everyone. If there’s a risk you’ll leave out someone who has been especially helpful to you — or conversely, if you’re intentionally not tagging your current boss — “that may leave a negative impression,” Lyons said. In that case, better to reach out privately to the individuals you want to thank and instead invite anyone reading your post to “please comment for reach,” she suggested. Keep it upbeat: If you’re financially freaked out, don’t say so, Lyons said. You don’t want to give the impression that you’ll take the first job that comes alone. “Companies want you to want them — not just for you to take the job because you have to,” Lyons said. “It’s okay to say you’d like a job sooner rather than later. But be careful not to appear desperate.” Be consistent across platforms: Chances are you may announce your layoff on more than one social platform. So be consistent in your message. You don’t want to put out a very professional post on, say, LinkedIn but then launch an angry tweetstorm on Twitter. “[Before] someone goes to hire you,” Lyons said, “they will read your posts.” Related Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback CNN Business Videos CNN Video This week’s Middle East business news: From Trump’s Gulf tour to mega energy deals 1:55 Apr 25, 2025 CNN Video The ‘life-saving’ gift that Beyoncé’s grandmother passed down to her 3:21 Apr 25, 2025 CNN Video He bought gold at Costco. He’s not cashing in yet 1:58 Apr 25, 2025 Clipped From Video Video Opportunities abound for some in Swiss watchmaking 3:37 Apr 25, 2025 Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Business Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Business Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in real time, except for the S&P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes. All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor’s and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.