https://www.scmr.com/article/labor-shortages-remain-an-ongoing-concern-in-many-parts-of-u.s-manufacturing
Labor shortages remain an ongoing concern in many parts of U.S. manufacturing - Supply Chain Management Review ☰ menu NextGen Supply Chain Conference: Event organizers seek senior-level executives to share success stories and strategic insights across CPG, 3PL, life sciences, and food & beverage supply chains. Speaker registration Procurement Management Software & Technology Education Resources Press Releases Subscribe Sourcing & Procurement Topics Inventory Management Risk Management Global Trade Ports & Shipping All Procurement Procurement Pulse Latest in Sourcing & Procurement Is co-location the next big game-changer in supply chain? The Reshoring Institute asked 18 executives how they are responding to tariffs: Here’s what they said From ‘China shock’ to recovery awe 3 transformative trends impacting S&OP strategies How we gamified mathematical optimization using burritos Tariffs: A hidden threat to corporate and supply chain security More Sourcing & Procurement Top Stories Is co-location the next big game-changer in supply chain? Supply chain co-location offers a powerful solution for companies seeking to remain cost-effective, quick to market, and environmentally sustainable.… Resources Tariffs will have a major impact on your supply chain, margins, and operations. GEP outlines key strategies for companies to enhance supply chain resilience and financial stability amid global trade uncertainty. Download Business Management Topics Supply Chain Management TMS WMS 3PL Govt & Reg­ula­tion Sustain­ability Finance All Management NextGen Leaders Latest in Business Management Getting unified for greater business growth Is co-location the next big game-changer in supply chain? The Reshoring Institute asked 18 executives how they are responding to tariffs: Here’s what they said From ‘China shock’ to recovery awe 3 transformative trends impacting S&OP strategies How composable technology is revolutionizing supply chain management More Business Management Top Stories Getting unified for greater business growth The move to more connected, cloud-based systems can offer real-time decision-making and improved business performance, says Manhattan Associates exec. Resources The State of Dock and Yard Management - 2025 Industry Report C3 Solutions has surveyed 170 professionals from various industries to gather real-world insights into today's dock and yard management challenges. Download Software & Technology Topics Artificial Intelligence Automation Cloud IoT Robotics Software All Technology Leadership Lens Latest in Software & Technology Collaborative supply chain innovation Getting unified for greater business growth How composable technology is revolutionizing supply chain management Register to speak at the 2025 NextGen Supply Chain Conference Honeywell’s unified approach to customers explained CEO Ed Auriemma explains why Körber Supply Chain Software rebranded as Infios More Software & Technology Top Stories Collaborative supply chain innovation Resources Tracking the 10 Critical Supplier KPIs Download this guide to identify the top 10 critical supplier KPIs that manufacturers and distributors should prioritize to ensure their supply chain remains… Download Education Topics Executive Education Associations Institutions Universities & Colleges All Education The Academy Latest in Education Register to speak at the 2025 NextGen Supply Chain Conference Call for speakers: 2025 NextGen Supply Chain Conference looking for industry leaders NextGen Supply Chain Conference heads to Nashville in 2025 with focus on 4 key industries Reactions pour in on Trump’s reciprocal tariffs Navigating the road to zero-emission trucking It’s time to stay focused More Education Top Stories Call for speakers: 2025 NextGen Supply Chain Conference looking for industry leaders Registration for speaking opportunities at the 2025 NextGen Supply Chain Conference is now open. This year’s conference will focus on 4 key industries:… Resources Certify Your Success In this Special Digital Edition of Supply Chain Management Review, we look at the current state of executive education with some of our best content on the… Download Resources Topics Podcasts Webinars Glossary Companies Visionaries White Papers Special Reports Premiums Magazine Archive Vertical Voices Latest in Resources How we gamified mathematical optimization using burritos Unlocking a digital transformation success story Want better procurement outcomes? Start with better relationships How Reddy Ice Transforms Data to Drive End-to-End Automation and Agility The Key to Modern Supply Chains: Automated Testing for WMS Success The Perfect Order: Introduction More Resources Opinions The Academy: How we gamified mathematical optimization using burritos Gurobi Optimization, in collaboration with Dr. Larry Snyder of Lehigh University, created a supply chain optimization game based on the… Leadership Lens: Unlocking a digital transformation success story From data to people, there are steps that must be taken to convert a warehouse from a static cost center to a dynamic and digitally… Procurement Pulse: Want better procurement outcomes? Start with better relationships Strong relationships can have many beneficial outcomes for procurement organizations, but many still cling to a transactional… Magazine Subscription & Services Services Get Supply Chain Manage­ment Review Magazine Free Newsletters Digital Edition Magazine Archives Customer Service Subscribe to SCMR Start subscription Get Newsletters Get email newsletters Magazine Archives Browse archives Press Releases Press Releases Submit Press Release Latest Press CtrlChain and NewCold Deepen Partnership to Build a Fully Integrated Supply Chain Solution BuilderNation podcast unveils procurement insights series for tech visionaries Grasshopper Unveils New White-Label Digital Branding Solution McLeod Software Enhances Broker and Carrier Relationships and Communication with TMS Update McLeod Software Announces Partnership Updates with 24.2 TMS Upgrade All press releases Search SCMR All sections -- News -- Opinions -- Research -- Products -- Visionaries -- Magazine Archive -- Media -- Photos -- Video -- Press Releases -- Event Listing Podcast -- Supply Chain -- The Frictionless Supply Chain -- Talking Supply Chain -- In-Transit -- The Rebound Resources -- Webinar -- White Paper -- Special Report -- Premium Columns -- Procurement Pulse -- NextGen Leaders -- Leadership Lens -- The Academy -- Vertical Voices -- Straight Talk -- Perfect Order All topics Procurement & Sourcing -- Inventory Management -- Risk Management -- Global Trade -- Ports & Shipping Business Management -- Supply Chain Management -- TMS -- WMS -- 3PL -- Government & Reg­ula­tion -- Sustain­ability -- Finance Software & Technology -- Artificial Intelligence -- Automation -- Cloud -- IoT -- Robotics -- Software Education -- Executive Education -- Associations -- Institutions -- Universities & Colleges Events -- NextGen Supply Chain Conference -- CSCMP -- IANA -- NASSTRAC All channels News & Content Companies Podcasts Downloads Magazine Archives Relevance Publish date Search Advanced Search ☰ Browse Topics Top Event organizers seek senior-level executives to share success stories and strategic insights across CPG, 3PL, life sciences, and food &… Speaker registration All Supply Chain Topics Sourcing & Procurement Inventory Management Risk Management Global Trade Ports & Shipping Business Management Supply Chain TMS WMS 3PL Govt & Regulation Sustainability Finance Software & Technology Artificial Intelligence Automation Cloud IoT Robotics Software Education Executive Education Associations Institutions Universities & Colleges Resources Podcasts Webinars Glossary Companies Visionaries White Papers Special Reports Premiums Magazine Archive Subscribe SCMR Magazine Newsletters Magazine Archives Customer Service Latest Podcast: Talking Supply Chain: Putting Gen AI into action Webinar: How Reddy Ice Transforms Data to Drive End-to-End Automation and Agility News: Collaborative supply chain innovation News: Getting unified for greater business growth Artificial Intelligence: Collaborative supply chain innovation NextGen Supply Chain Conference: Register to speak at the 2025 NextGen Supply Chain Conference Research: Supply chain salaries, job satisfaction on the rise More news SCMR Topics Business Management Labor Shortage Labor shortages remain an… Labor shortages remain an ongoing concern in many parts of U.S. manufacturing Data shows more upside risk for labor shortages worsening this year Subscriber: Log Out Jason Miller · January 13, 2025 · Though U.S. manufacturers are not facing the endemic challenges with recruiting labor that they suffered in 2021 and 2022, issues regarding labor shortages are ongoing . In this article, I draw on data from various U.S. government agencies, especially the Census Bureau’s Quarterly Survey of Plant Capacity Utilization (QSPC), to examine trends in the extent manufacturers are reporting labor shortages. I further utilize disaggregated data at the 3-digit North American Industrial Classification System (NAICS) level to examine which sectors report greater labor challenges today than before the COVID-19 pandemic versus those where labor shortages are less prevalent. I conclude by discussing how proposed government policies, especially plans regarding mass deportations , could affect labor availability in 2025. Manufacturing-wide labor shortage trends QSPC data through Q3 2024 shows that approximately 20.6% of manufacturing plants in the U.S. that failed to produce at their full capacity cited insufficient supply of labor or labor skills as a key constraint in their production. This number is less than half of the peak reading of 46.3% recorded in Q3 2021 and is comparable to levels observed from Q2 2018 through Q3 2019. However, this number is double the 10.7% average observed from Q1 2014 through Q4 2016. From a longer-term historical perspective, Stahl & Morin (2013) report that in the late 1990s, roughly 20% of plants cited insufficient supply of labor or labor skills as a constraint on capacity utilization; this number plunged to below 5% with the Global Financial Crisis of 2008-2009 and remained below 10% through the end of 2012. Thus, despite an approximately 10 quarter manufacturing recession , labor challenges remain at levels more consistent with what we observed during strong periods of manufacturing growth like those in the late 1990s or in 2018. (Photo: Author) Differences across sectors To understand how labor shortage issues differ across sectors, in the table below I report the proportion of plants citing labor issues for Q3 2018 (the peak in the 2014-2019 period), Q3 2021 (the peak during the 2021-2022 period), and Q3 2024 (the most recent data). I’ve further calculated how Q3 2024 compares to Q3 2018 and Q3 2021. Not surprisingly, almost all sectors report fewer labor challenges today than in Q3 2021—the lone holdout is petroleum & coal products (NAICS 324), one of the few sectors where manufacturing output is higher than in 2021. Relative to Q3 2018, the picture is less clear. Some sectors such as transportation equipment are citing labor shortages far less frequently today than in 2018, whereas other sectors like chemicals are citing labor shortages far more frequently (charts for these industries are presented below). One potential explanation is that sectors such as chemical production are operating at a higher rate of capacity utilization than in 2018, whereas the opposite is true for transportation equipment , which increases the likelihood that supply side constraints are binding. (Photo: Author) (Photo: Author) (Photo: Author) Mass deportations & labor shortages Food manufacturing, which is the largest sector of U.S. manufacturing by employment (at over 1.7 million individuals) as well as contribution to for-hire trucking demand—generating roughly 14.5% of all ton-miles of freight hauled by for-hire carriers based on the Commodity Flow Survey—is widely regarded as the sector of manufacturing whose labor is most vulnerable to potential mass deportations. Examining labor shortage issues, levels currently resemble what was observed in 2017 and 2018 but are elevated from 2019. Food manufacturing plants are currently reporting capacity utilization rates well-above pre-COVID levels, which suggests that any shock to labor availability will increase the proportion of plants whose output becomes constrained by supply side constraints such as labor shortages. As agricultural production, especially harvesting of fruits and vegetables, in the United States also has substantial labor supply exposure to mass deportations, food manufacturing facilities availability of raw materials may be affected by mass deportations. (Photo: Author) What to watch for in 2025 One indicator to watch closely as we progress through 2025 is the seasonally adjusted quit rate reported by manufacturing firms as part of the Bureau of Labor Statistics Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS). These data, released through November, show quit rates stabilizing at levels observed in 2017-2019, and down substantially from the peaks observed in 2021 and early 2022. As these data (aggregated quarterly) correlate r = 0.93 with the QSPC data on labor shortages across all manufacturing, they suggest that we are unlikely to see further progress in overcoming labor shortages in 2025. Consequently, supply chain managers should recognize there is more upside risk for labor shortages worsening in 2025 than downside risk of labor shortages further ameliorating. (Photo: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics) About the author Jason Miller is the interim chairperson and Eli Broad Professor of Supply Chain Management in the Department of Supply Chain Management of the Eli Broad College of Business at Michigan State University. SC MR (Photo: Getty Images) Labor shortages are impacting industries differently, with some seeing shortages consistent with pre-pandemic times, while others continue to struggle to find workers. Subscribe to our weekly  e-mail update Don’t miss out on the best in supply chain. Get premium resources and in-depth, comprehensive feature articles written by the industry's top experts – delivered. Subscribe! *Please enter a valid email address. More Labor Shortage Labor shortages remain an ongoing concern in many parts of U.S. manufacturing Survey reveals strategies for addressing supply chain, logistics labor shortages A Momentous Year: Five Trends for 2024 Stressed out supply chains: Elevated freight and labor costs still an issue Robotics figure prominently in future supply chain process improvements More Labor Shortage What's Related in Labor Shortage Uncover the Top Manufacturing Industry Insights Leading to Your Success Stay ahead in the dynamic world of manufacturing by downloading the full Manufacturing Market Report 2024. Download Explore Business Management Explore Topics News Business Management Supply Chain Management Jason Miller Labor Management Labor Shortage Manufacturing Labor Business Management News Getting unified for greater business growth Is co-location the next big game-changer in supply chain? The Reshoring Institute asked 18 executives how they are responding to tariffs: Here’s what they said From ‘China shock’ to recovery awe 3 transformative trends impacting S&OP strategies How composable technology is revolutionizing supply chain management More Business Management Latest Business Management Resources Talking Supply Chain: State of the SMB supply chain with Alibaba’s Yikun Shao Yikun Shao, head of B2B North American supply chain for Alibaba Group, joins the Talking Supply Chain podcast to talk about the challenges, and… Listen in Talking Supply Chain: Navigating today’s geopolitical world In Transit Podcast: Understanding the impact of Trump on shipping and trade flows More resources Subscribe Supply Chain Management Review delivers the best industry content. Subscribe today and get full access to all of Supply Chain Management Review’s exclusive content, email newsletters, premium resources and in-depth, comprehensive feature articles written by the industry's top experts on the subjects that matter most to supply chain professionals. Subscribe today Editors’ Picks Reactions pour in on Trump’s reciprocal tariffs As expected, President Trump on Wednesday signed an Executive Order… AI: The key to navigating supply chain challenges in an uncertain world The future of supply chain management involves harnessing the power of AI and… U.S. tariffs create urgent need for supply chain agility Trump’s aggressive tariffs and the ongoing possibility of even greater… DEI is dead; long live DEI (but you don’t have to love it) DEI, as a term, is effectively dead—there is too much negative baggage… Supply Chain Management Review About Us Subscribe to Supply Chain Management Review Magazine Get digital edition Get newsletters Get article reprints Magazine archive About us Contact us Editorial team Advertise with us Privacy policy Peerless Network Supply Chain Management Review Modern Materials Handling Logistics Management Supply Chain 24/7 Material Handling 24/7 Robotics 24/7 Digital Engineering 24/7 Peerless Media Peerless Content Creation Peerless Research Featured Podcast: Talking Supply Chain: Putting Gen AI into action Webinar: How Reddy Ice Transforms Data to Drive End-to-End Automation and Agility News: Collaborative supply chain innovation News: Getting unified for greater business growth Artificial Intelligence: Collaborative supply chain innovation NextGen Supply Chain Conference: Register to speak at the 2025 NextGen Supply Chain Conference Research: Supply chain salaries, job satisfaction on the rise Research: Supply Chain’s Top Trends for 2024 Require Talent Investment for Success Explore more © Copyright 2025 Supply Chain Management Review, a division of Peerless Media. All Rights Reserved. × Search Search Sourcing & Procurement Inventory Management Risk Management Global Trade Ports & Shipping Business Management Supply Chain TMS WMS 3PL Government & Regulation Sustainability Finance Software & Technology Artificial Intelligence Automation Cloud IoT Robotics Software The Academy Executive Education Associations Institutions Universities & Colleges Resources Podcasts Webinars Companies Visionaries White Papers Special Reports Premiums Magazine Archive Subscribe SCMR Magazine Newsletters Magazine Archives Customer Service Press Releases Press Releases Submit Press Release ×