https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cn4zwq0v8n1o
Oswaldtwistle theatre at 'heart' of town added to 'at-risk' list Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Theatre at 'heart' of town added to 'at-risk' list 28 January 2025 Share Save Share Save Kimberley Whitehead/Hyndburn Council Oswaldtwistle Civic Arts Centre & Theatre has been added to the Theatres At Risk register A Lancashire theatre which has been "at the heart of the community for more than 150 years" has been added to a heritage "at risk" register. The Theatres Trust, a charity dedicated to safeguarding UK theatres, has added Oswaldtwistle Civic Arts Centre & Theatre to its annual Theatres at Risk Register as part of efforts to protect the venue. It is among 13 theatres across north-west England on the list of those under threat due to severe structural or safety issues or redevelopment plans. Other theatres on the register include Liverpool's Epstein Theatre and Manchester's Theatre Royal, the city's oldest surviving theatre. Theatres Trust Salford's Victoria Theatre was designed by eminent theatre architect Bertie Crewe The venues across the region featuring on the Theatres Trust 2025 register - which has a total of 43 UK theatres on it - are as follows: Greater Manchester Tameside Theatre - Ashton-under-Lyne's only Grade II-listed, purpose-built theatre which is of architectural and historical significance, featuring 1930s Art Deco features. Co-op Hall, Ramsbottom - built in 1874-1876 as part of the Co-operative movement. It has been unused since 1944. Victoria Theatre, Salford - which was designed by eminent theatre architect Bertie Crewe, with rare substage machinery. Hulme Hippodrome - a Grade II-listed music hall constructed for the Broadhead Circuit which operated 17 venues in the region. Theatre Royal, Manchester - the city's oldest surviving theatre building, built in 1845. Lancashire Burnley Empire - the town's only Grade II-listed purpose-built Victorian theatre, built in 1894. Winter Gardens Morecambe - the Grade II-listed big concert party hall was built in 1897 to the designs of Mangnall & Littlewood. Winter Gardens, Blackpool Pavilion - the entertainment complex built between 1875-1939. Joe Longthorne Pavilion - an Art Deco pier pavilion in Blackpool dating from the 1930 on Blackpool's North Pier. Oswaldtwistle Civic Arts Centre & Theatre - which the charity said was "at the heart of the community for more than 150 years". Ian Grundy The Pavilion Theatre on Blackpool's North Pier is named after the late entertainer Joe Longthorne Merseyside Garston Empire - built in 1915, it is a rare surviving example of a ciné-variety house, designed to bring theatre and silent films to the working-classes. Epstein Theatre - a Grade II-listed theatre built above a music shop in 1913 and originally intended as a music hall which was closed in 2023 when its financial support was curtailed. Garrick Theatre, Southport - an Art Deco theatre built in 1932. Its original features remain largely intact. Ian Grundy The Epstein Theatre in Liverpool closed in 2023 after its financial support was curtailed Listen to the best of BBC Radio Lancashire on Sounds and follow BBC Lancashire on Facebook , X and Instagram and watch BBC North West Tonight on BBC iPlayer. More on this story Council backs plans to save arts centre and theatre Grade II theatre shuts after council cuts support Volunteers shocked by £2.8m grant for venue revamp Further £500k for Winter Gardens upgrades Pier theatre to be renamed after Joe Longthorne Related internet links Theatres Trust Theatre Morecambe Ashton-under-Lyne Manchester Blackpool Oswaldtwistle Salford Burnley Southport Liverpool Ramsbottom Hulme Related Premier League promotion part of writing festival 1 day ago Suffolk 'Theatre's ongoing closure is really sad for town' 1 day ago Somerset Launch party for Dorset Towns of Culture 2025 2 days ago Dorset More 2 hrs ago 'There will be tears' say expectant Liverpool fans Anticipation builds at Anfield as fans hope to celebrate the team's Premier League victory. 2 hrs ago Liverpool 3 hrs ago Ups, downs and the race for Europe All you need to know about promotion, relegation and qualification for Europe in England and Scotland's top men's football leagues, and the Women's Super League. 3 hrs ago Football 4 hrs ago Dad of 14-year-old killed in M6 crash charged A 31-year-old man has been charged with causing death by dangerous driving. 4 hrs ago Lancashire 4 hrs ago Manchester Marathon 2025 in pictures About 36,000 runners took part with thousands of supporters cheering them on. 4 hrs ago Manchester 8 hrs ago Trauma survivors share stories for charity appeal Day One Trauma helps victims rebuild their lives after suffering catastrophic injuries. 8 hrs ago British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.