https://www.bbc.com/live/news
BBC Live & Breaking World and U.S. News Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Live Now LIVE Nine people killed after man drives car into Vancouver festival crowd Police say they are not treating the incident as an act of terrorism as a 30-year-old man is arrested. Follow Live now Recently Live Davey calls for more guidance over trans judgement as McFadden rules out Whitehall 'toilet police' The Lib Dem leader and Labour minister are joined by Green co-chair Carla Denyer and Tory Kevin Hollinrake on the show. See how it played out Pope Francis laid to rest after funeral brings together politicians, royalty and 400,000 mourners Guests at the Vatican service were told of the Pope's call to "build bridges", as Trump and Zelensky were pictured meeting inside St Peter's Basilica. See how it played out Mangione pleads not guilty to federal murder charge over insurance CEO's killing He is accused of shooting UnitedHealthcare CEO Brain Thompson outside of a Manhattan hotel. See how it played out Zelensky says ‘position unchanged’ on Crimea after Trump says it will stay with Russia Zelensky says "only the Ukrainian people have the right to decide which territories are Ukrainian". See how it played out Watch as thousands queue to see Pope Francis lie in state for final day Mourners are paying their respects to the Pope for the final day ahead of the funeral on Saturday. See how it played out British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.