https://www.cnn.com/2024/12/08/politics/fact-check-trump-meet-the-press/index.html
Fact check: Trump’s false birthright citizenship claim repeats old lies on ‘Meet the Press,’ | CNN Politics CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections More SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Follow CNN Politics World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Ad Feedback Fact check: Trump, repeating old lies on ‘Meet the Press,’ falsely claims US is the only country with birthright citizenship By Daniel Dale , CNN 4 minute read Updated
          4:00 PM EST, Sun December 8, 2024 Link Copied! Follow: Donald Trump See your latest updates Video Ad Feedback Trump says deporting immigrants 'very tough thing to do' 02:33 - Source: CNN Trump says deporting immigrants 'very tough thing to do' 02:33 Politics of the Day 22 videos Video Ad Feedback Trump says deporting immigrants 'very tough thing to do' 02:33 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Ex-prosecutor says arrested judge’s fate could come down to this 01:21 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Reporter describes heated argument between Musk and Bessent at White House 01:21 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback ‘The issue of immigration is a matter of humanity’: Mexican citizens react to US anti-immigration commercials 01:32 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback ‘Trump chickened out’: Chinese social media mocks Trump on trade 05:12 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Bolton on Trump: ‘His favorite is not Russia; his favorite is Vladimir Putin’ 02:07 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Why Trump’s potential U-turn could give China the upper hand 01:20 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Pamela Brown presses State Department spokesperson about Rubio's absence from Ukraine peace talks 15:00 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Treasury secretary: China needs to change 01:17 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Hear retired admiral's advice for Hegseth amid Signal chat controversies 02:34 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Hegseth defends himself on Fox & Friends against Signal chat claims 01:05 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback 'Proved himself to be a lightweight': Bolton reacts to Hegseth on Signal chats 01:09 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Hear what Musk told Tesla investors about his DOGE role going forward 01:36 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Jennings and Garcia-Navarro react to Goldman Sachs CEO’s remarks about ‘uncertainty’ in policy 03:32 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Crowd roars over question about what oversights Byron Donalds would impose on Elon Musk and DOGE 02:57 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Jake Tapper breaks down the significance of '60 Minutes' executive producer's resignation 07:26 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Scott Jennings says White House will ‘stick with Hegseth’ for now 03:09 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Harry Enten breaks down how Americans feel about judicial review of Trump’s policies 02:54 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Bill Clinton shares story about Secret Service detail who was killed in Oklahoma City bombing 00:53 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Retired colonel reacts to reports Hegseth shared detailed military plans in second Signal chat 03:23 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Hear from protesters rallying against Trump across the US 00:51 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback GOP strategist on IRS acting chief's departure: 'Trump chose his Cabinet members over Elon Musk' 02:53 Now playing - Source: CNN See More Videos Washington CNN — President-elect Donald Trump repeated numerous false claims during an interview that aired Sunday on NBC’s “Meet the Press” – including his old lie that the US is the world’s only country with birthright citizenship. Trump reiterated his intention to try to end birthright citizenship, in which, under the 14th Amendment to the Constitution, someone born in the US is granted automatic citizenship even if their parents are not citizens. And he asserted, “We’re the only country that has it.” This is not true; CNN and various other outlets previously debunked the claim when Trump made it during his presidential campaign in 2015 and during his first presidency in 2018 . About three dozen countries provide automatic citizenship to people born on their soil, including US neighbors Canada and Mexico and the majority of South American countries. Here are some other false and misleading claims Trump made in the portion of the interview that NBC aired on television on Sunday morning. (CNN has not yet reviewed the additional chunks of the interview that NBC released online.) Crime : Trump falsely claimed, “Crime is at an all-time high.” That is nowhere close to true. Both violent crime and property crime rates have plummeted in the US since the early 1990s and are far below all-time highs. FBI data shows that crime declined again in 2023 . Trump’s tariffs : Trump falsely claimed of the tariffs he imposed during his first presidency: “They cost Americans nothing.” Study after study , including one from the federal government’s bipartisan US International Trade Commission , found that Americans bore almost the entire cost of Trump’s tariffs on Chinese products. The tariffs are paid by US importers, not foreign exporters as Trump regularly claims, and it’s easy to find specific examples of companies that passed along the cost of the tariffs to US consumers. French President Emmanuel Macron poses with U.S. President-elect Donald Trump and Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy before a trilateral meeting at the Elysee Palace in Paris as part of ceremonies to mark the reopening of the Notre-Dame de Paris Cathedral, five-and-a-half years after a fire ravaged the Gothic masterpiece, after its restoration, in Paris, France, December 7, 2024. Sarah Meyssonnier/Pool/Reuters Related live-story The latest on Trump’s presidential transition Trump and inflation : Trump falsely claimed that, during his presidency, “We had no inflation.” In fact, cumulative inflation during Trump’s presidency was about 8% . Biden and inflation: Trump falsely claimed that inflation was so low during his presidency that the Biden administration “didn’t have inflation for a year and a half – they went almost two years, just based on what I had created.” In reality, there was cumulative inflation of about 14% over Joe Biden’s first two years as president ; the Biden-era peak for month-over-month inflation, 9.1%, occurred in June 2022 , during those first two years. The 2020 election : Trump vaguely reiterated his lie that he was the real winner of the 2020 election, saying, “I think it’s an easy argument, it was really proven even more conclusively by the win that I had on this one.” His legitimate victory in the 2024 election does not do anything to validate his claims that the 2020 election was stolen, Migrants and murderers : Trump repeated his frequent false claim there were “13,099 murderers released into our country over the last three years.” In reality, as the Department of Homeland Security and independent experts have noted , that official figure is about immigrants with homicide convictions in the US today who entered the country over decades, including during Trump’s own administration, not over the past three years or solely under the Biden administration. You can read more here . Venezuela, migration and prisoners : Trump repeated his regular tale about how Venezuela has supposedly emptied prisons to allow criminals to migrate to the US. Trump has never corroborated this claim, and experts have told CNN , PolitiFact and FactCheck.org that they haven’t seen any evidence that it is true. The European Union and trade : Trump repeated a false claim he has repeatedly made about European countries and trade: “They don’t take our cars, they don’t take our food product, they don’t take anything.” None of this is true. The US exported about $368 billion in goods to the European Union in 2023 (while importing about $576 billion from the EU that year), US federal figures show. According to a December 2023 report from the European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association, the EU is the second-largest market for US vehicle exports — importing 271,476 US vehicles in 2022, valued at nearly 9 billion euro. (Some of these are vehicles made by European automakers at plants in the US .) And the US government says the EU was the fifth-largest 2022 export market for US agricultural and related products, behind China, Canada, Mexico and Japan. Trump and Obamacare : Trump claimed, “I am the one that saved Obamacare.” This is misleading at best. As president, Trump tried to repeal Obamacare but failed because congressional Republicans could not amass enough votes to kill the law in 2017. After that, he and his officials took many steps to weaken the law, though they did continue to operate the Obamacare exchanges – and they refused to defend several central provisions of the law in a lawsuit brought by a coalition of Republican-led states, instead arguing that key parts of Obamacare should be invalidated. You can read more here from CNN’s Tami Luhby. Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Politics Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Politics Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.