https://www.apple.com/uk/legal/intellectual-property/
Legal - Intellectual Property - Apple Apple Store Mac iPad iPhone Watch Vision AirPods TV & Home Entertainment Accessories Support 0 + Legal Open Menu Close Menu Hardware Software Sales & Support Internet Services Intellectual Property More Resources Intellectual Property Apple’s innovation is embodied in its Intellectual Property, including Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights. To learn more about Apple’s Intellectual Property policies, please click on one of the links below. FRAND Licensing Principles for SEPs A statement on fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory (FRAND) licensing of standard essential patents (SEPs). Read our statement Guidelines for Using Apple Trademarks and Copyrights Guidelines for parties wishing to use Apple’s trademarks, service marks or images. See the guidelines Rights and Permissions Information on how to request Rights and Permissions to use Apple copyrighted materials. Learn about Rights and Permissions .Apple TLD Policies Terms and Policies that apply to the .Apple Top‑Level Domain. Learn about .Apple Infringement Claims How to submit claims of infringement concerning: Copyrights Piracy Counterfeit products Apps Apple Books Apple News Music, Movies, TV, and Podcasts Apple TV+ and Fitness+ Ringtones Unsolicited Idea Submission Policy Apple or any of its employees do not accept or consider unsolicited ideas. Our policy is available on the link below. Read our policy Apple Footer  Apple Legal Intellectual Property Hardware and Software Hardware and Software + Hardware Warranties Software License Agreements RF Exposure More Resources More Resources + Overview Gender Pay Gap Report UK Tax Policy Government Information Requests Contact Apple Legal Global Trade Compliance Supplier Provisions Filemaker Legal Information Sales & Support Sales & Support + Overview AppleCare Repair Terms and Conditions Express Replacement Service Remote Access Technical Assistance Terms and Conditions Sales Policies Apple Gift Card Terms and Conditions Training Service Terms and Conditions Support Communities Terms of Use Internet Services Internet Services + Overview Apple Media Services Terms and Conditions Apple Gift Card Terms and Conditions iCloud Terms of Service Privacy Policy Website Terms of Use Intellectual Property Intellectual Property + Overview Guidelines for Using Apple Trademarks and Copyrights Rights and Permissions Piracy Prevention Unsolicited Idea Submission Policy Education Education + Apple School Manager Enterprise Enterprise + Apple Business Manager More ways to shop: find an Apple Store or other retailer near you. Or call 0800 048 0408. United Kingdom Copyright ©
				
				2025
				 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Use of Cookies Terms of Use Sales and Refunds Legal Site Map