https://edition.cnn.com/2025/04/12/science/milky-sea-ocean-glow-mystery-database/index.html
‘Milky sea’ events mysteriously cause the ocean to glow. Scientists are trying to track them | CNN CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Science Space Life Unearthed More Space Life Unearthed Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Space Life Unearthed Follow CNN World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Ad Feedback Science Life • 6 min read A mysterious ocean glow reported for over 400 years has stumped scientists. A new study could offer clues By Taylor Nicioli , CNN 6 minute read Updated
          1:03 PM EDT, Sat April 12, 2025 Link Copied! Follow: See your latest updates “Milky seas” are an ocean phenomenon that cause a vast area of the ocean to glow. Scientists are trying to predict when the events occur in hopes of better understanding the bioluminescent display. Steven Miller Sign up for CNN’s Wonder Theory science newsletter. Explore the universe with news on fascinating discoveries, scientific advancements and more . CNN — For over 400 years, sailors have reported a mysterious phenomenon in which the ocean appears to glow as far as the eye can see. “The sea from horizon to horizon in all directions took on a phosphorescence glow … the moon had just set and the whole sea was several shades lighter than the sky,” wrote J. Brunskill, an officer aboard a ship called the SS Ixion that had sailed through the Arabian Sea in 1967. Nearly 10 years later, another crew aboard a vessel named the MV Westmorland experienced a similar event in the Arabian Sea as it sailed through a “large area of bioluminescence,” according to the ship’s captain, P. W. Price. “The sea … glared a brilliant and bright green. So brilliant in fact that neither white caps nor swell waves could be distinguished from what appeared to be a perfectly flat sea,” he wrote in a letter in 1976. These events, dubbed “milky seas” by the sailors who have been lucky enough to come across them, have been notoriously hard to study due to their rare occurrences in remote regions of the ocean where many humans are not around to see them. Now, scientists hoping to better investigate the peculiar events are one step closer to predicting when and where these mysterious bioluminescent displays will occur. Justin Hudson, a doctoral student in Colorado State University’s department of atmospheric science, has compiled over 400 known sightings of “milky seas,” including those from Brunskill and Price, to create a new database that will help scientists one day get a research vessel to an event, according to a study published Wednesday in the journal Earth and Space Science. “My hope is that with this database … more people will be able to start studying ‘milky seas’ and start unraveling this mystery that’s been around for centuries,” said Hudson, who is the lead author of the new research. QAQORTOQ, GREENLAND - JULY 30:  Calved icebergs from the nearby Twin Glaciers are seen floating on the water on July 30, 2013 in Qaqortoq, Greenland. Boats are a crucial mode of transportation in the country that has few roads. As cities like Miami, New York and other vulnerable spots around the world strategize about how to respond to climate change, many Greenlanders simply do what theyve always done: adapt.  "Were used to change, said Greenlander Pilu Neilsen. "We learn to adapt to whatever comes. If all the glaciers melt, well just get more land.  (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images) Joe Raedle/Getty Images/FILE Related article Ancient glacier finding reveals clues to how complex life on Earth evolved, scientists say He added that further study of “milky seas” can answer the many questions that remain on the phenomenon, such as why they happen and what they could mean for ocean life. “Milky seas could be a sign of something like a very good, healthy ecosystem. They could be a sign of an unhealthy ecosystem, and we just don’t know,” he added. “And so by being able to predict when and where they’re going to happen, we can start answering those questions about … where it fits in our whole global, interconnected Earth system.” Bioluminescent bacteria Observers often describe “milky seas” as similar in color to glow-in-the-dark stars put on the ceilings of children’s bedrooms. The glow the phenomenon emits has been reported by sailors to be strong enough to read by — a stark contrast to the dark ocean typically seen when there is no sun or moonlight. These events, which can last for months on end, stretch as wide as 100,000 square kilometers (about 39,000 square miles), and the larger ones can be seen from space, according to the study. While scientists do not know exactly why this rare glow occurs, it is likely a byproduct of high concentrations of microscopic bioluminescent bacteria called Vibrio harveyi, according to the study. This hypothesis is based on a 1985 chance encounter by a research vessel that had collected and tested a water sample during a “milky sea” event. “But besides that, the circumstances for how they form and how they set about causing the entire ocean to glow like that is still highly unknown,” said Dr. Steven Miller, study coauthor and a professor in Colorado State University’s department of atmospheric science. Miller, who has studied the phenomenon for decades, was the lead author of a 2021 study that found the larger “milky seas” could be detected via satellites . The larger "milky seas" can be seen from space, as shown in this colorized satellite image of an event. Steven Miller After compiling all known records of “milky sea” sightings, which included historical records of eyewitness reports from sailors and satellite data, the study authors noted several trends related to the mysterious sea occurrences: Milky seas primarily appear in the Arabian Sea and Southeast Asian waters, and they may be impacted by certain global climate events, such as the Indian Ocean Dipole and the El Niño Southern Oscillation, Hudson said. The regions where “milky seas” mostly occur tend to experience upwelling in the ocean, which is when the cooler, nutrient-rich water from the deep ocean is brought up to the surface due to strong winds. He predicts in these regions there are about one or so instances of “milky seas” a year. “They are spots that are primed for lots of biological activity to happen,” Hudson said. “But there’s lots of places on Earth that are like that. So what actually makes (these regions) special is a huge, open question.” The role of ‘milky seas’ in the ecosystem “Milky seas” are different from the more common bioluminescent ocean events caused by a type of phytoplankton known as dinoflagellates. These organisms emit a blue glow when disturbed, such as when fish swim by or waves crash on the shore, in contrast to the steady glow emitted in the “milky seas” event. While the phytoplankton flash in a defense mechanism, researchers theorize that the “milky sea” bacteria glow instead to attract fish — which then will eat the bacteria and allow the bacteria to thrive in the creature’s gut, said Miller, who is also the director of the Cooperative Institute for Research in the Atmosphere (CIRA) at Colorado State University. Like many other scientists who have studied bioluminescence, Miller hopes to one day see the mysterious event for himself. Dr. Edith Widder, an oceanographer and marine biologist who was not involved with the study, has the same goal. Paul Caiger Related article They are known as silent killers. Now, unprecedented recordings reveal first known shark sounds “I have spent my career observing and measuring bioluminescence in the ocean. I have seen some amazing light shows but I’ve never seen a milky sea. I really want to,” Widder said in an email. “By assembling this data base the authors bring us that much closer to being able to predict where and when a milky sea may occur.” Widder, who is also the CEO and senior scientist for the Ocean Research & Conservation Association, wonders what effect the bioluminescent event has on other life in the ocean, particularly on the creatures that hide in the dark depths during the day and come up to eat only in the darkness. “Light is a critical determinant of animal distributions and behaviors in the ocean. … What happens to that daily game of hide and seek when the animals that need to hide are illuminated by all that glowing bioluminescence?  What is the impact on the carbon cycle ?  This is a natural experiment that has the potential to reveal a lot about the workings of life in the ocean,” she added. There have been previous attempts at compiling databases of milky sea events, but each of these were eventually lost to time. With the new database, it “resets the benchmark for us in terms of our knowledge and awareness of where ‘milky seas’ are happening globally and over time,” Miller said. National Geographic will present "Titanic: The Digital Resurrection," a documentary that uses underwater scanning technology to unveil a digital twin of the ship. Atlantic Productions/Magellan Related article 3D scan of Titanic sheds new light on doomed liner’s final moments During these mysterious bioluminescent ocean events, “the bacterial population is responding in this way that is so dramatic, and in a way that we hadn’t really anticipated could be possible,” Miller added. Amongst the many unanswered questions that remain: Scientists don’t know how climate change affects the occurrence of the glow events, and how that can impact the ecosystem, he noted. “We need to understand how that process is working … because, among many other things, bacteria and phytoplankton are associated with the bottom of the oceanic food chain — all the higher order species and fish are reliant on that food chain to exist. And changes in that food chain, based on changes in circulations of our planet, are things that we need to know about.” Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Science Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.