https://www.apple.com/healthcare/
Healthcare - Apple Apple Store Mac iPad iPhone Watch Vision AirPods TV & Home Entertainment Accessories Support 0 + Healthcare Local Nav Menu Local Nav Menu Overview Hospital Care Home Care Success Stories Contact us Healthcare Technology Make care connected, personalized, and human. Make care connected. personalized. human. Apple products help care teams work more efficiently, connect with patients remotely, and conduct groundbreaking research that moves medicine forward. The result is care that becomes more effective, more personalized, and ultimately more human. Hospital Care Put progress into practice. Learn more With Apple devices we can collaborate successfully and get access to what we need, no matter where we are. It helps us spend more time focusing on patient care. Dr. Sander Muijs, Orthopedic Surgeon UMC Utrecht Watch video iPhone and iPad help providers practice medicine on the move. Mac lets clinicians power through demanding medical workflows with ease. Apple Vision Pro lets you see the future of healthcare. Right before your eyes. Care at Home Face to face. From anywhere. Learn more We can now deliver the same high-level quality of care that we’re used to delivering in the inpatient setting to patients at home. That is something we’ve never really been able to do. Dr. Jeff Vergales University of Virginia Children’s Hospital Watch video iPad and iPhone help you stay connected to patients and monitor their progress remotely. Apple Watch can detect possible underlying conditions so that you can take action sooner. Apple Watch and the Health app motivate patients to improve their everyday health. Research and Development Build the next big thing in medicine. Researchers from all over the world are making new discoveries and advancing patient care with Apple’s open source code. ResearchKit and CareKit can help you develop an app for innovative studies at scale, transform the way you treat — or create an entirely new health experience no one’s thought of yet. Learn more Apple Watch collects a huge amount of healthcare data that enables us to analyze the relationship of health outcomes to lifestyle. Dr. Takehiro Kimura Keio University School of Medicine IT and Security Simple and secure. At any scale. Apple fits within your existing infrastructure, so you can set up, manage, and secure any number of devices with ease. Zero-Touch Deployment Setup in a snap. Zero-Touch Deployment Setup in a snap. Apple Business Manager works with MDM solutions to make deployment and management exceptionally easy. Automated Device Enrollment allows your IT team to configure devices remotely and customize the setup process — so Apple devices are ready to go right out of the box. Learn more, Zero-Touch Deployment Device Management Keep it all under control. Device Management Keep it all under control. Apple devices come with built-in management and security frameworks that make it easy for IT to configure and manage devices, buy and distribute apps, and monitor threats remotely. Whether you have 10 devices or 10,000, IT can easily create profiles to ensure that employees have everything they need to be secure and productive. Learn more, Device Management Hardware and Software Secure by design. Hardware and Software Secure by design. Apple hardware and software are designed for maximum security. Whether your clinicians are on Mac, iPad, or iPhone, Apple silicon and operating systems work together to deliver powerful features that keep your organization’s data and devices safe. Learn more, Hardware and Software Touch ID and Face ID One touch and you’re in. Touch ID and Face ID One touch and you’re in. Touch ID and Face ID give users a fast, easy, and secure way to unlock devices, open protected files, and retrieve passkeys at a touch or a glance. So your clinicians won’t waste time looking up forgotten passwords. Learn more, Touch ID and Face ID Apple Values Designed to make a difference. What matters to you matters to Apple, too. From using more recycled materials that minimize environmental impact. To privacy protections that give you more control over your data. To creating built‑in features that make Apple products accessible to all. Unparalleled privacy. Powerful privacy features are built into every Apple device to protect you and your patient’s data. Learn about privacy features A clean footprint. Apple products are designed to reduce our impact on the planet without compromising performance, strength, or materials. Learn about our 2030 plan Access for all. Built‑in features like Switch Control and Live Listen help make Apple products accessible to everyone. Learn about Apple and accessibility Let’s discuss the best options for your care team. Get in touch Hello. Let’s build a custom plan around your business. To begin, please answer a few short questions, and then an Apple Business Team member will give you a call to discuss the products, software, and services that are right for you. Select one Education Enterprise Government First Name Error: Please enter your first name. Last Name Error: Please enter your last name. Email must be a business email address. Email Error: Please enter a valid email address. Phone Number Error: Please enter a valid phone number. Select one Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Bermuda Bolivia, Plurinational State of Botswana Brazil Canada Cayman Islands Chile Colombia Costa Rica Czech Republic Denmark Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador El Salvador Finland France Georgia Germany Grenada Guatemala Guyana Honduras Hungary India Ireland Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Kazakhstan Kyrgyzstan Luxembourg Mexico Moldova Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Norway Panama Paraguay Peru Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Spain Sweden Switzerland Tadzhikistan Trinidad and Tobago Turkmenistan Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Virgin Islands, British Country Error: Please select a country. Company Name Error: Please enter your company name. Select one 1-25 26-50 51-500 501-1000 1001+ Company Size Error: Please select a company size. Select one Accommodation Advertising & Media Arts & Entertainment Aerospace Agriculture Charity & Non-Profit Construction Financial Services Food Services Forestry Healthcare Insurance Manufacturing Mining Professional Services Retail Sport Technology Transportation Utilities Other Industry Error: Please select an industry. Select one Finance HR IT Marketing Operations Procurement Sales Other Job Function Error: Please select a job function. Select one Purchase new devices Support existing devices I’m looking to Error: Please make a selection. Mac iPad iPhone Apple Vision Pro Apple Watch Apple TV AirPods AppleCare Apple Professional Services Accessories Error: Please make a selection. Comments (optional) Preferred Reseller (optional) I want to receive announcements, recommendations, and updates about Apple business offerings and more. Submit By clicking “Submit,” you agree to share your information with our authorized partners and resellers to service your request. Your information will be used only for necessary operational and transactional communications. Apple Footer  Apple Healthcare Shop and Learn Shop and Learn Store Mac iPad iPhone Watch Vision AirPods TV & Home AirTag Accessories Gift Cards Apple Wallet Apple Wallet Wallet Apple Card Apple Pay Apple Cash Account Account Manage Your Apple Account Apple Store Account iCloud.com Entertainment Entertainment Apple One Apple TV+ Apple Music Apple Arcade Apple Fitness+ Apple News+ Apple Podcasts Apple Books App Store Apple Store Apple Store Find a Store Genius Bar Today at Apple Group Reservations Apple Camp Apple Store App Certified Refurbished Apple Trade In Financing Carrier Deals at Apple Order Status Shopping Help For Business For Business Apple and Business Shop for Business For Education For Education Apple and Education Shop for K-12 Shop for College For Healthcare For Healthcare Apple in Healthcare Mac in Healthcare Health on Apple Watch Health Records on iPhone and iPad For Government For Government Shop for Government Shop for Veterans and Military Apple Values Apple Values Accessibility Education Environment Inclusion and Diversity Privacy Racial Equity and Justice Supply Chain About Apple About Apple Newsroom Apple Leadership Career Opportunities Investors Ethics & Compliance Events Contact Apple More ways to shop: Find an Apple Store or other retailer near you. Or call 1-800-MY-APPLE (1-800-692-7753). United States Copyright ©
				
				2025
				 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Terms of Use Sales and Refunds Legal Site Map