https://www.bbc.com/audio/play/p0l2fmqg
BBC Audio | Test Match Special | The Cowdrey Lecture Pt 1: What is the Spirit of Cricket? Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Test Match Special The Cowdrey Lecture Pt 1: What is the Spirit of Cricket? Up next The Cowdrey Lecture Pt 2: What does TMS mean to you? Brook announced as England white-ball captain How do you captain England? Cook, Crawley & is cricket in a crisis? ‘It’s going to be really powerful.’ What’s changing in women’s cricket? Save Save Share April 4, 2025 34 minutes Available for over a year We bring you a special episode from Lords, where the TMS team had the honour of hosting the 2025 MCC Cowdrey Lecture. In this first part, Jonathan Agnew is joined by former England captain Michael Vaughan to discuss what the Spirit of Cricket means to them, reflecting on moments from their playing careers. They also talk about the changing landscape of the sport & Michael shares his ideas for how to further modernise County Cricket. Part 2 will be out soon. Make sure you’re subscribed to TMS wherever you listen to your podcasts, so you don’t miss any episodes over the summer. See more episodes Programme website British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.