https://edition.cnn.com/2025/04/09/entertainment/weezer-scott-jillian-shriner-shot-arrested/index.html
Weezer bassist’s wife Jillian Shriner arrested on suspicion of attempted murder after being shot by police | CNN CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity More Movies Television Celebrity Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Movies Television Celebrity Follow CNN Entertainment World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Ad Feedback Weezer bassist Scott Shriner’s wife arrested on suspicion of attempted murder after being shot by police By Alli Rosenbloom , CNN 2 minute read Updated
          10:02 AM EDT, Thu April 10, 2025 Link Copied! Follow: Crime See your latest updates Scott Shriner and Jillian Shriner in New York in 2015. Ron Adar/FilmMagic/Getty Images CNN — Jillian Shriner, an author and the wife of Weezer bassist Scott Shriner, was involved in a situation with police that resulted in her being shot by law enforcement and subsequently arrested on suspicion of attempted murder, according to the Los Angeles Police Department. The incident occurred on Tuesday afternoon in the East LA neighborhood of Eagle Rock, when officers attempting to track a suspect of an unrelated hit-and-run were in the rear yard of a residence and observed a woman in a “neighboring residence armed with a handgun,” an LAPD news release read. The woman was later identified as Jillian Shriner. “The officers ordered Shriner to drop the handgun numerous times; however, she refused. Shriner then pointed the handgun at the officers, and an Officer-Involved Shooting occurred,” the release read. “Shriner was struck by gunfire and fled into her residence. She later exited and was taken into custody.” She was released Wednesday after posting a $1 million bond, according to publicly available records. She is due in court on April 30. CNN has reached out to representatives for Jillian Shriner and Weezer for comment. A representative with the LAPD was unable to confirm why Shriner was holding a gun at the time, given she had no apparent connection to the hit-and-run police were responding to. Police recovered a 9-millimeter firearm from the home, according to the release. No officers or other people were injured during the incident. Police handcuff a woman in Eagle Rock, California, on Tuesday. The woman is believed to be Jillian Shriner, an author and the wife of Weezer bassist Scott Shriner. KCBS/KCAL In video captured by CNN affiliate KCBS/KCAL , two women were seen walking out of a home to the street with their hands up. Later on, one of the women, believed to be Shriner, is seen laying face down on the ground. Police then handcuffed her as other officers stood by. In separate aerial footage captured by CNN affiliate KABC , the same woman was seen walking slowly as she was assisted by medics to get on an ambulance. Jillian Shriner was taken to a local hospital where she was treated for a non-life-threatening gunshot wound. One of the male suspects connected to the hit-and-run was detained and subsequently released by the California Highway Patrol but other two suspects were not located. Shriner is the author of four books, including her best-selling 2010 memoir, “Some Girls: My Life in a Harem,” which detailed her experience living in the harem of Prince Jefri Bolkiah of Brunei. She and Scott Shriner, the bassist for the rock band Weezer, have been married since 2005. Weezer was recently added to the Coachella Festival lineup this coming weekend and are scheduled to perform at the Mojave tent on Saturday. Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Entertainment Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Entertainment Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.