https://english.ahram.org.eg/News/544643.aspx
The fate of the dollar - Opinion - Al-Ahram Weekly - Ahram Online Sunday, 27 April 2025 French | عربي Home Egypt Egypt  Home Politics Society Courts & Law Foreign Affairs Health Urban & Transport Defence Tourism War on Gaza Business Business  Home Economy Markets & Companies Energy Tech Opinion World World  Home Region International Africa War in Ukraine War in Sudan Arts & Culture Arts & Culture  Home Screens Music Visual Art Stage & Street Sports Sports  Home Egyptian Football Talents Abroad World National Teams Africa Omni sports Multimedia Life & Style Life & Style  Home Style Health Food City Lights Antiquities Antiquities  Home Ancient Egypt Greco-Roman Coptic Islamic Museums Books Books  Home Reviews News Heritage Heritage  Home Walks Folk Arts Heritage special Photo Heritage Inspiring Minds Multimedia Al-Ahram Weekly Al-Ahram Weekly  Home Egypt Economy World Opinion Culture Limelight Heritage Features Focus Living Sufra Dayma Entre nous Autos Travel Interviews Special Nakba remembered Art Cinema Exhibitions Lectures Theater Music and dance Sports COP27 The fate of the dollar Mahmoud Mohieldin Wednesday 16 Apr 2025 The disappearance of the British pound as an international reserve currency after the end of World War II offers lessons for the dollar today. Every global economic crisis prompts legitimate concerns regarding the future of the dollar as an international currency, one that is used to settle cross-border transactions (and sometimes domestic ones as well outside the US), to price goods and services, and to preserve value and savings over time. The dollar first emerged as a distant competitor to the British pound nearly a century ago. It was backed by the strength of a rapidly growing US economy, while sterling was weakened by World War I and further harmed by the debts and expenditures of the second. Despite the economic toll of two world wars, the pound sterling at first retained its position among global currencies, largely due to long ingrained habits and a failure to appreciate the extent of Great Britain’s decline. Then came two turning points. The first was the Bretton Woods Agreement of July 1944, in which the pound was noticeable by its absence as a benchmark currency in the post-World War II financial order. The second came with the Tripartite Aggression against Egypt in 1956, or the Suez Crisis as it was called by others at the time. At this time, the British pound was still the world’s dominant “hard currency,” making up 55 per cent of global reserves. But when the US compelled the UK, France, and Israel to halt their assault on Egypt, the world understood that the so-called “free world,” as the West was known at the time, now had a new leader. Henceforth, the currency of that leader would enjoy what Valéry Giscard d’Estaing, the French Finance Minister in the 1960s, called an “exorbitant privilege.” This privilege afforded Washington unique advantages. It could borrow inexpensively, repay debts in its own currency (which it controlled through its mint), and enjoy monetary stability despite running high trade deficits. Through its control of this hard currency, which still accounts for 60 per cent of global reserves, the United States could wield enormous financial influence, bolstering its global dominance as the world’s largest economy, strongest military, and most advanced technological power. Yet, despite the foregoing, we are now suddenly faced with a US president who, soon after coming to power in a landslide electoral victory, has proclaimed that his country has long been “looted, pillaged, raped and plundered by nations near and far, both friend and foe alike.” What are we to make of this? Evidently the leader of the wealthiest nation on Earth has taken these words right out of the mouths of the leaders of far poorer nations whose participation in a grossly inequitable global order has left their countries crippled by extreme poverty, widespread malnutrition and disease, and deprivation from the benefits of progress. Evidently, all those international looters, plunderers, and pillagers were far less effective and didn’t do a good job in the US, compared to their ravaging of Africa and elsewhere in the Global South. As the Nobel Laureate in Economics Michael Spence explained in his recent article “Navigating the Trump Storm” – is determined to restructure international trade and investment to benefit US workers. But a major obstacle stands in the way: the ongoing demand for US financial assets, such as stocks, bonds, and the dollar itself as the world’s leading reserve currency. In order to truly achieve the goal of reversing trade imbalances, Washington would have to deliberately reduce the attractiveness of its dollar-denominated financial assets by restricting capital flows in its balance of payments. Otherwise, nothing will fundamentally change. To put it more simply, the US is implicitly bound to honour the commitments that come with the privileges of issuing the world’s premier reserve currency. Countries export their goods to the US, and the US exports whatever manufactures and agricultural products it can, with these exchanges being reflected in the balance of trade. In like manner, the US imports and exports services (tourism, transport, logistics and so on) and these exchanges are reflected in the current account. Even when both accounts are in the red, its deficit is offset by capital inflows in various forms of investment and external borrowing. But with the total US public debt, both domestic and foreign, now standing at $36 trillion, something has to give. Resolving this massive imbalance will require sacrifices in the capital account and the serious management of existing and future debt burdens. US President Donald Trump is essentially following through on the process that began with the weaponisation of the dollar, using it as an instrument of sanctions and freezing assets or cutting off countries from the SWIFT international payments system. This process has led through the imposition of tariffs, the creative reinterpretations of “reciprocity,” the disruption of development aid, and the replacement of the multilateral rules-based international order with the “might makes the rules-based order” to the collapse of the so-called global order or at least its economic arrangements. The global economic order has been in decline since the 2008 world financial crisis, which ushered in a period marked by the squeezing of Europe’s middle classes and their anxieties over losing the benefits of the welfare state. In the US, the middle classes have also been hit hard. The American dream of prosperity has faded, economic disparities have worsened, and social polarisation has intensified. The challenges of declining competitiveness and technological advances, especially artificial intelligence, are likely to cause the middle classes and others further pain. But channelling their anger against more efficient international trade partners or harder-working migrant workers will neither reduce the pain nor resolve the problems. Trump’s recent measures, even if aimed at trade and investment, have effectively destroyed the remnants of the post-World War II global economic order. The importance of the dollar will persist, but only until a viable alternative (or alternatives) emerges. Its survival is due not to its absolute strength, but rather to the relative weakness of its competitors. The fate of the British pound after World War II offers the dollar a sobering lesson. This article also appears in Arabic in Wednesday’s edition of Asharq Al-Awsat. * A version of this article appears in print in the 17 April, 2025 edition of Al-Ahram Weekly Follow us on: Facebook Instagram Whatsapp Short link: Latest News CAF U20 Africa Cup of Nations fixtures (1st round, group stage) Live score: Egypt v South Africa (CAF U-20 Africa Cup of Nations) Egyptian film Life After Siham to screen at Cannes parallel section ACID Italy Serie A fixtures & results (34th matchday) Egyptian actresses May El-Ghety, May Calamawy join cast of new US production..... Egyptian-Norwegian artist Britt Boutros Ghali exhibits works in Berlin, Seoul Book Review: Pope Francis – the man who listened before he preached Efforts for restoring Gaza ceasefire should be intensified: El-Sisi to Hungarian..... All eyes turn to conclave as Pope Francis tomb opens to public Peruvian actors with Down syndrome tear down barriers in London's  show Most Viewed A massive explosion at Iranian port kills 8, injures around 750 China development contributes to world peace: Experts at Chinese Modernization..... Egyptian Players Abroad: Abdelmonem helps Nice win, Sam Morsy plays but Ipswich..... Egypt’s annual unemployment rate drops to 6.6 percent in 2024: CAPMAS Palestinian president Abbas appoints aide as potential successor English Premier League results & fixtures (34th matchday) Match facts: Newcastle United v Ipswich Town (English Premier League) Koller’s future at Ahly in doubt after Champions League exit Israel's 60-day blockade: Palestinians struggling to feed their families Israeli strike kills 10 including 5 children amid efforts to resume Gaza ceasefire Also In Opinion Point-blank: Is the budget constitutional? The enduring threat of the Muslim Brotherhood Elusive truce vs open-ended war Prospects of the US-Iranian negotiations Agenda 2030 Editorial: Bringing the money in Diplomacy vs confrontation on Iran Egypt War on Gaza Business Opinion World Arts & Culture Sports Life & Style Antiquities Books Heritage Multimedia Al-Ahram Weekly Work For Us About us © 2020 All Rights Reserved Ahram Online.