https://www.apple.com/uk/ipad/
iPad - Apple (UK) Apple Store Mac iPad iPhone Watch Vision AirPods TV & Home Entertainment Accessories Support 0 + iPad Pro iPad Air New iPad New iPad mini Compare Apple Pencil Keyboards New Accessories iPadOS 18 Shop iPad Spread the cost of your new iPad over 12 months at 0% APR. * Limited time offer. Shop iPad Touch, draw and type on one magical device. Loading iPad lineup and its accessories animation Get to know iPad. Apple Intelligence Personal, private, powerful. Productivity Your workplace can be any place. Creativity Take your inner artist out and about. Learning Your classroom can be anywhere. Entertainment Kick back. Tune in. Game on. Apple Pencil Dream it up. Jot it down. iPadOS + Apps Everyday superpowers. Built right in. Explore the lineup. Compare all models iPad Pro space black silver The ultimate iPad experience with the most advanced technology. Learn more Buy iPad Pro 13” or 11” Ultra Retina XDR display 4 ProMotion technology P3 wide colour Nano-texture display glass option on 1TB and 2TB models M4 chip Apple Intelligence 1 12MP Wide camera 4K video, ProRes Landscape 12MP Center Stage camera TrueDepth camera system Supports Apple Pencil Pro Supports Apple Pencil (USB-C) Supports Magic Keyboard for iPad Pro New iPad Air space gray blue purple starlight Serious performance in a thin and light design. Learn more Buy iPad Air 13” or 11” Liquid Retina display 4 P3 wide colour M3 chip Apple Intelligence 1 12MP Wide camera 4K video Landscape 12MP Center Stage camera Supports Apple Pencil Pro Supports Apple Pencil (USB-C) Supports Magic Keyboard for iPad Air New iPad blue pink yellow silver The colourful, all-screen iPad for the things you do every day. Learn more Buy iPad 11” Liquid Retina display 4 sRGB colour A16 chip — Apple Intelligence not applicable 12MP Wide camera 4K video Landscape 12MP Center Stage camera Supports Apple Pencil (USB-C) Supports Apple Pencil (1st generation) 5 Supports Magic Keyboard Folio iPad mini space gray blue purple starlight The full iPad experience in an ultra‑portable design. Learn more Buy iPad mini 8.3” Liquid Retina display 4 P3 wide colour A17 Pro chip Apple Intelligence 1 12MP Wide camera 4K video 12MP Center Stage camera Supports Apple Pencil Pro Supports Apple Pencil (USB-C) Supports Bluetooth keyboards iPad essentials. Apple Pencil Dream it up. Jot it down. Learn more Keyboards for iPad Type it out. Take it with you. Learn more Why Apple is the best place to buy iPad. Shop iPad Financing Monthly payment options available. Learn more about financing options. Save With Apple Trade In. Get credit towards your next iPad when you trade in an eligible device. 6 Learn more about Apple Trade in Fast, free delivery. Or pick up available items at an Apple Store. Learn more about delivery and pickup options. Personalise your iPad for free. Engrave your new iPad with a mix of emoji, names, initials and numbers. 7 Learn more about engraving your iPad Shop with an iPad Specialist Shop one‑to‑one with a Specialist. Online or in a store. Shop with a Specialist Get help finding what’s right for you. Shop one‑to‑one with a Specialist online. Or reserve a shopping session at an Apple Store. Shop with a Specialist online Meet your new iPad with Personal Setup. Jump into online sessions with a Specialist to set up your iPad and discover new features. Personal Setup Jump into online, one‑to‑one sessions. When you buy your new iPad directly from Apple, you’ll get access to Personal Setup. In these guided online sessions, a Specialist can walk you through setup, or focus on features that help you make the most of your iPad. Best of all, you can join whenever works for you, from wherever you are. Learn more Explore a shopping experience designed around you. Use the Apple Store app to get a more personal way to shop. Apple Store App Shop in the Apple Store app, tailored specifically for you. Get personalised product recommendations, compare models, access your Saved Items and track your orders. Plus opt in today to get updates on new products, promotions, flexible payment options and store events. Download the Apple Store app Significant others. iPad and iPhone iPad is perfect for taking the content you capture on iPhone and bringing it to life on an immersive canvas. You can shoot videos and photos on your iPhone and use the large display of your iPad to edit, add animations and more. You can also pick up wherever you left off with Handoff. iPad and Mac iPad and Mac are designed to work together to form the ultimate creative setup. Sketch on your iPad and have it appear instantly on your Mac with Sidecar. Then use your iPad for drawing or editing with Apple Pencil or as a second display. Extend your workflow to new places, and when you return to your desk, Universal Control allows you to use one mouse or trackpad seamlessly across both devices. iPad and Apple Watch iPad is a great way to optimise your workouts while tracking your progress on Apple Watch. See personal metrics from Apple Watch integrated on the screen of your iPad in real time. The sensors in Apple Watch combine with advanced algorithms to provide data that keeps you motivated. And see it all come together on your Health app on iPad. iPad Explore iPad Explore All iPad iPad Pro iPad Air iPad iPad mini Apple Pencil Keyboards Compare iPad Why iPad Shop iPad Shop iPad iPad Accessories Apple Trade In Financing More from iPad iPad Support AppleCare+ for iPad iPadOS 18 Apple Intelligence Designed for Families Apps by Apple iCloud+ Education Apple Footer * Consumer finance on apple.com is brokered by Apple Retail UK Limited, which acts as a credit broker and not the lender. Apple offers finance from a restricted range of finance providers and Barclays Partner Finance, which is a trading name of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, a member of the Barclays Group. Clydesdale Financial Services Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (Financial Services Register number: 311753). Registered in England. Registered number: 2901725. Registered office: 1 Churchill Place, London, E14 5HP. Subject to application and status. Full terms apply. Barclays Partner Finance Eligibility Criteria apply. On the date of the application, applicants must be aged 18 or over, have lived permanently in the UK for the last three years (i.e. must provide three years of UK address history or up to the last three UK addresses), and have a UK bank account from which direct debits can be taken. A valid UK mobile number and email address are also mandatory for a finance application. If you do not have a valid email address, you will not be able to apply for finance. You must not be subject to a Bankruptcy or Debt Relief Order (or Scottish equivalent). You must also either be permanently employed with a regular sustainable income of at least £6,000 per year, self-employed (upon request, you may need to provide proof of income, such as a recent bank statement and/or your SA302), retired from regular employment (Barclays may need to see proof of your pension or income), or receiving certain Department for Work and Pensions benefits that provide regular sustainable income. For information, the credit check carried out will consider additional information relating to the performance of previous or existing commitments and any county court judgments. Subject to application, financial circumstances and borrowing history. Customers who are approved for finance on qualifying apple.com Consumer purchases will pay 0% (APR fixed) for 12 months on a minimum order value of £299 including VAT, purchased with or without related Apple-branded accessories and software. Maximum order value is £50,000 including VAT. Third-party products may only be purchased in conjunction with the Apple hardware, but their value may not exceed one third of the total value of the financing. To receive consumer finance on apple.com , customers must make a qualifying purchase AND obtain the financial services provided by Barclays Partner Finance. The completed contract must be received by Barclays Partner Finance no later than 10 days after the promotion has finished. Purchases on the Apple Store for Education or Business are not eligible for the Promotion. Apple reserves the right to modify these terms at any time. Representative example for 12‑month order: £1,200 purchase. Deposit £0. Annual rate of interest 0% p.a. Representative APR 0%. Total amount of credit £1,200 paid over 12 months as 12 monthly payments of £100 at 0% p.a. Total amount payable £1,200. Apple Intelligence is available in beta on iPad mini (A17 Pro) and iPad models with M1 and later, with Siri and device language set to Chinese (Simplified), English (Australia, Canada, India, Ireland, New Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, UK or US), French, German, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese (Brazil) or Spanish, as an iPadOS 18 update, with more languages coming over the course of the year, including Vietnamese. Some features may not be available in all regions or languages. Accessories sold separately. Data plan required. 5G is available in selected markets and through selected network providers. Speeds vary based on site conditions and network. For details on 5G support, contact your provider and see apple.com/uk/ipad/cellular . The displays have rounded corners. When measured diagonally as a rectangle, the 13-inch iPad Pro is 13 inches, the 11-inch iPad Pro is 11.1 inches, the 13-inch iPad Air is 12.9 inches, the 11-inch iPad Air and iPad are 10.86 inches, and the iPad mini is 8.3 inches. Actual viewable area is less. USB‑C to Apple Pencil Adapter required to work with iPad. Trade-in values will vary based on the condition, year and configuration of your eligible trade-in device. Not all devices are eligible for credit. You must be at least 18 years old to be eligible to trade in for credit or for an Apple Gift Card. Trade-in value may be applied towards qualifying new device purchase or added to an Apple Gift Card. Actual value awarded is based on receipt of a qualifying device matching the description provided when estimate was made. In-store trade-in requires presentation of a valid photo ID. Offer may not be available in all stores, and may vary between in-store and online trade-in. Desktop computer trade-in is currently only available online and some stores may have additional requirements. Apple or its trade-in partners reserve the right to refuse or limit quantity of any trade-in transaction for any reason. More details are available from Apple’s trade-in partner for trade-in and recycling of eligible devices. Restrictions and limitations may apply. You can return your iPad even if you engrave it. And when you’re ready to upgrade, it won’t change your trade-in value. Apps are available on the App Store. Title availability is subject to change. “Lunch” written by Jeff Melvin, MELVV, Maude Latour.  Apple iPad Shop and Learn Shop and Learn Store Mac iPad iPhone Watch Vision AirPods TV & Home AirTag Accessories Gift Cards Apple Wallet Apple Wallet Wallet Apple Pay Account Account Manage Your Apple Account Apple Store Account iCloud.com Entertainment Entertainment Apple One Apple TV+ Apple Music Apple Arcade Apple Fitness+ Apple News+ Apple Podcasts Apple Books App Store Apple Store Apple Store Find a Store Genius Bar Today at Apple Group Reservations Apple Summer Camp Apple Store App Certified Refurbished Apple Trade In Financing Order Status Shopping Help For Business For Business Apple and Business Shop for Business For Education For Education Apple and Education Shop for University For Healthcare For Healthcare Apple in Healthcare Mac in Healthcare Health on Apple Watch Health Records on iPhone and iPad Apple Values Apple Values Accessibility Education Environment Privacy Supply Chain About Apple About Apple Newsroom Apple Leadership Career Opportunities Warranty Investors Ethics & Compliance Events European Job Creation Contact Apple More ways to shop: find an Apple Store or other retailer near you. Or call 0800 048 0408 . United Kingdom Copyright © 2025 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Use of Cookies Terms of Use Sales and Refunds Legal Site Map