https://edition.cnn.com/2025/03/22/travel/travel-news-worst-behaved-tourists-march-2025/index.html
The worst travelers of March so far | CNN CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Destinations Food & Drink News Stay Video More Destinations Food & Drink News Stay Video Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Destinations Food & Drink News Stay Video Follow CNN Travel World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Ad Feedback The worst-behaved travelers of March so far By Maureen O'Hare , CNN 4 minute read Published
          7:00 AM EDT, Sat March 22, 2025 Link Copied! Follow: Aviation news See your latest updates Handsy tourists have damaged the patina of this Irish statue of fictional fishmonger Molly Malone (pictured in Dublin in 2019) through their constant groping. Artur Widak/NurPhoto/Getty Images Editor’s note: Sign up for Unlocking the World, CNN Travel’s weekly newsletter . Get news about destinations, plus the latest in aviation, food and drink, and where to stay. CNN — In this week’s travel roundup, we bring you tourist misbehavior and unruly incidents from March so far, then sweeten that bitter pill with wholesome adventure stories and a tale of love. Air travel worldwide is set to be disrupted for days following a fire near the UK’s Heathrow Airport. Shocked travelers have told us about being caught up in the chaos on Friday. Here’s what to do if your flight is canceled or delayed. March madness It’s been a lively month so far in terms of disappointing antics by travelers and pleasure-seekers. An American tourist caused international outrage mid-March after she was filmed snatching a baby wombat from its mother and running off with it. A Pennsylvania man was caught on March 7 going through security at a New Jersey airport with a live turtle concealed in his pants. A video went viral of two diners urinating into their hotpot broth at a restaurant in China, leading the restaurant chain to offer refunds to customers. In Ireland, a campaigner is trying to stop tourists from groping the breasts of Dublin’s famous Molly Malone statue. Airplanes have always been a hive of unruly behavior, but March has been a doozie. In just the last three weeks, disruptive incidents on planes have included biting , shoving , swallowing of rosary beads , plans to speak to President Trump , and toilets getting so clogged the plane had to turn back. Starting over Let’s turn now to some more inspirational real-life travel stories. A former luxury realtor from Los Angeles was in her 60s when she went on vacation to Puglia in southern Italy. She loved it so much she decided to stay there for good. A Pittsburgh woman had a different calling when she moved to the southern Italian region of Calabria and became the country’s “first woman rabbi.” “There’s a Yiddish word, beshert… It means ‘meant to be,’” she tells CNN. A Californian university professor left the US for what he thought would be a six-month trip to Japan . More than three decades later, he’s still there. He tells CNN, it’s still “so much fun.” Finally, a Chicago woman and her teenage son left the US for Spain after a heartbreaking family tragedy. Relocating is not easy, she says, but “ Valencia helped us heal.” Getting active Li Dongju, of China, didn’t go on her first international trip until she was 56 years old. Now, 10 years later, she’s exploring the world by bike . She’s already biked solo through 12 countries across three continents. In Utah’s Bryce Canyon National Park, Trish Salazar and Aaron Toro connected instantly when they met while hiking. Within days, they were committed to a long-distance relationship and planning a future together. Then life took another unexpected turn. Hear their story on the Chance Encounters podcast. With “perfect waves and no crowds,” Angola could be the surfing world’s best-kept secret. So far, the fledgling infrastructure means it’s only attracting the more adventurous surfers, but that’s beginning to change. It’s possible to keep fit on any trip, not just on full sporting adventures like these. To help keep up your routine while you’re away, our partners at CNN Underscored, a products review and recommendations guide owned by CNN, have this round-up of the best travel fitness products under $25, according to personal trainers. Canadians to US: ‘No, thanks!’ Video Ad Feedback Canadian couple cancels tens of thousands in travel to the US 02:15 - Source: CNN Canadian couple cancels tens of thousands in travel to the US 02:15 A Canadian couple told CNN they normally spend tens of thousands traveling throughout the US every year. Because of remarks by President Donald Trump and the tariff war, they’ve canceled nearly everything . They aren’t alone. Canadian tourists make up 40% of the revenue for many businesses in Old Orchard Beach, Maine. This year, many are choosing to skip their regular vacation. One accommodation owner tells CNN he’s had so many cancellations his business may not survive. Watch here . In case you missed it This man quit his corporate job to travel the world photographing dogs. He says he’s “close to out of money .” The world’s happiest countries for 2025 have been revealed. And it turns out people are much kinder than we expect. This Ugandan tourism experience costs $800 an hour. Here’s why it’s worth it . An Italian beach town has been swarmed by midges. Locals want a state of emergency declared. Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Travel Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.