https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cyvq17enle8o
Hunterston B power station declared 'nuclear free' Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Hunterston B power station declared 'nuclear free' 2 days ago Share Save Kevin Keane BBC Scotland environment correspondent Share Save Getty Images The power station, in North Ayrshire, ended generation in January 2022 The former Hunterston B power station in North Ayrshire has been formally declared nuclear free after three years of defuelling. The site generated its final power in January 2022 after 46 years of operation - two decades longer than originally planned. The site's eventual closure was sealed when hairline cracks were found in the graphite bricks which make up its nuclear cores. Owners EDF Energy said all spent fuel from Hunterston had now been transported by train to Sellafield in Cumbria for long-term storage. The site will now be prepared for handover to Nuclear Restoration Services which looks after decommissioned sites. That is expected to happen in about a year's time. All fuel elements passed through the cooling pond before being packaged for transportation and storage Since it closed, 4,880 elements of spent fuel have been removed from the two nuclear reactors. After a period spent cooling in ponds on the site, the elements were packaged into 350 large flasks for long-term storage. Once the last was removed, inspectors from the Office for Nuclear Regulation conducted checks before declaring the power station "nuclear free". By the autumn, armed police who patrol the highly-sensitive site will be stood down. Station Director Andy Dalling said defuelling had been carried out on time and on budget with the focus now turning to the handover. He said: "It's a significant stage. It allows us to move to the second phase which is deconstruction. "Deconstruction is a big project and we think it will last at least another decade. "We are trying to get the site to a phase called 'safe store', which means a lot of dismantling, demolition, carefully decontaminating items on site and then retreating the site back to a safe store." Rachel Boyd says the power station has been a part of local life for as long as she's known Mr Dalling said that there would still be around 250 high-skilled jobs at the site for the next five to10 years and that EDF had been trying to match staff with their aspirations. Some will remain and help work through the engineering challenges involved in the project. Rachel Boyd, 28, from Ardrossan joined as an apprentice and will remain at the site through decommissioning. She said: "Generations have worked here. Their grandparents built the station, their parents have worked here and now we've got people working here who are decommissioning it. "The full life cycle of the station has seen the full life cycle of the local area." Hunterston B is one of seven advanced gas-cooled reactor sites in the UK which are nearing the end of their lives. Five are still generating electricity, including one at Torness near Dunbar in East Lothian, but three are in the process of being decommissioned. Last year Torness had its life extended by two years to 2030 and the remaining power stations will see an investment of £1.3bn across all sites. Nuclear Restoration Services, which looks after the decommissioned sites long-term, is effectively owned by the UK government. It's already responsible for more than a dozen UK sites including Hunterston A, which closed in 1990, alongside Dounreay on the north coast of Scotland. The Nuclear Decommissioning Authority said it would continue to work with EDF to ensure the smooth transition of the Hunterston B site. Nuclear power plant closes down after 46 years New £150m Hunterston port plans   given go-ahead Pictures show cracks in nuclear reactor Nuclear power Environment EDF Energy Related Robot dog flips crane switch at nuclear site 9 Apr 2025 Highlands & Islands Ex-Hinkley boss called 'greedy toad' over bribes 8 Apr 2025 Somerset What is happening at Hartlepool Power Station? 8 Apr 2025 Tees More 8 hrs ago The people 'meadowscaping' their lawns Turning lawns into meadows can have big benefits for people, wildlife and the climate. Here's why 'meadowscaping' has become the latest gardening craze. 8 hrs ago Future 1 day ago Anger flares at Just Stop Oil 'last day of action' A van appears to have been driven slowly towards protesters as hundreds marched through London. 1 day ago London 1 day ago Spring's hot weather to be treat for nature lovers A spell of hot weather will give a boost to nature as migratory birds return and butterflies emerge. 1 day ago Science & Environment 1 day ago Volunteers celebrate breaking tree-planting record The trees planted will benefit the ecosystem while reducing soil erosion and flooding. 1 day ago Gloucestershire 2 days ago Is resurrecting extinct animals a good idea? The creation of three "dire wolf" pups has raised hopes that it may be possible to resurrect extinct animals. But some scientists have grave concerns. 2 days ago Future British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.