https://play.google.com/store/books/details/Mary_Higgins_Clark_The_Second_Time_Around?id=qVPNcAGoCtEC
The Second Time Around: A Novel by Mary Higgins Clark - Books on Google Play Games Apps Books Kids google_logo Play Games Apps Books Kids none search help_outline Sign in with Google play_apps Library & devices payment Payments & subscriptions reviews My Play activity redeem Offers Play Pass Personalization in Play settings Settings Privacy Policy • Terms of Service Games Apps Books Kids The Second Time Around: A Novel Mary Higgins Clark Apr 2003 · Simon and Schuster 4.3 star 15 reviews Ebook 320 Pages family_home Eligible info EGP 116.02 Buy Free sample Add to wishlist About this ebook arrow_forward The Queen of Suspense, Mary Higgins Clark, delivers a gripping tale of deception and tantalizing twists that could have been ripped from today’s headlines. When Nicholas Spencer, the charismatic head of a company that has developed an anticancer vaccine, disappears without a trace, reporter Marcia “Carley” DeCarlo is assigned the story. Word that Spencer, if alive, has made off with huge sums of money—including the life savings of many employees—doesn’t do much to change Carley’s already low opinion of Spencer’s wife, Lynn, who is also Carley’s stepsister and who everyone believes is involved. But when Lynn’s life is threatened, she asks Carley to help her prove that she wasn’t her husband’s accomplice. As the facts unfold, however, Carley herself becomes the target of a dangerous, sinister group that will stop at nothing to get what they want. Mystery & thrillers Ratings and reviews Ratings and reviews aren’t verified info_outline arrow_forward Ratings and reviews aren’t verified info_outline 4.3 15 reviews 5 4 3 2 1 Vanessa Huggins more_vert Flag inappropriate January 7, 2015 Slow read.  Not what I expect from mary higgins clark! 2 people found this review helpful Did you find this helpful? Yes No Liz Putnam more_vert Flag inappropriate March 30, 2023 good so far Did you find this helpful? Yes No See all reviews About the author arrow_forward The #1 New York Times bestselling author Mary Higgins Clark wrote over forty suspense novels, four collections of short stories, a his­torical novel, a memoir, and two children’s books. With bestselling author Alafair Burke she wrote the Under Suspicion series including The Cinderella Murder , All Dressed in White , The Sleeping Beauty Killer , Every Breath You Take , You Don’t Own Me , and Piece of My Heart . With her daughter Carol Higgins Clark, she coauthored five suspense novels. More than one hundred million copies of her books are in print in the United States alone. Her books are international bestsellers. Rate this ebook Tell us what you think. Write a review Reading information expand_more Smartphones and tablets Install the Google Play Books app for Android and iPad/iPhone . It syncs automatically with your account and allows you to read online or offline wherever you are. Laptops and computers You can listen to audiobooks purchased on Google Play using your computer's web browser. eReaders and other devices To read on e-ink devices like Kobo eReaders, you'll need to download a file and transfer it to your device. Follow the detailed Help Center instructions to transfer the files to supported eReaders. More by Mary Higgins Clark arrow_forward Let Me Call You Sweetheart Mary Higgins Clark Mystery & thrillers 4.5 star EGP 812.77 Remember Me Mary Higgins Clark Mystery & thrillers 4.8 star EGP 580.41 Just Take My Heart: A Novel Mary Higgins Clark Mystery & thrillers 4.5 star EGP 580.41 Nighttime Is My Time: A Novel Mary Higgins Clark Mystery & thrillers 4.2 star EGP 465.62 Similar ebooks arrow_forward Just Take My Heart: A Novel Mary Higgins Clark Mystery & thrillers 4.5 star EGP 580.41 Death in the English Countryside: An English Village Murder Mystery Sara Rosett Book 1 • Mystery & thrillers 4.6 star EGP 151.20 I Heard That Song Before: A Novel Mary Higgins Clark Mystery & thrillers 4.5 star EGP 580.41 A Banquet of Consequences: A Lynley Novel Elizabeth George Mystery & thrillers 4.2 star EGP 583.97 Google Play Play Pass Play Points Gift cards Redeem Refund policy Kids & family Parent Guide Family sharing Terms of Service Privacy About Google Play Developers Google Store All prices include VAT. Egypt (English)