https://www.cnn.com/2025/04/16/sport/new-orleans-saints-fleur-de-lis-trademark-lawsuit-spt-intl/index.html
New Orleans Saints win lawsuit over fleur-de-lis trademark filed by ‘direct descendant of the Kings of France’ | CNN CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey More Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Follow CNN World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Ad Feedback New Orleans Saints win lawsuit over fleur-de-lis trademark filed by ‘direct descendant of the Kings of France’ By Ben Morse , CNN 2 minute read Updated
          11:59 AM EDT, Wed April 16, 2025 Link Copied! Follow: Football See your latest updates The fleur-de-lis symbol has long been associated with the New Orleans Saints. Chris Graythen/Getty Images CNN — The United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit dismissed a legal claim against the NFL ’s New Orleans Saints from a man who says he is the “direct descendant of the Kings of France” over the trademark of the fleur-de-lis symbol on Monday. A court document shows Michel J. Messier claimed that he and his family own “intellectual property rights to the Fleur de Lys, Orleans and Saints marks” and sought to cancel the NFL franchise’s patent for the symbols. However, the court ruled that his claim has no evidence, suggesting that neither Messier nor his family currently use the fleur-de-lis in any commercial capacity to merit consideration. When contacted by CNN Sports , Messier said that he plans to file a further cancelation appeal with the US Supreme Court by May 1, “including but not limited to the commercial value of my family’s approximately 1,500 years of continuing business interests.” Messier told CNN that he will be filing for Name, Image and Likeness claims for the fleur-de-lis as well as “legally pursuing” the Saints’ alleged characterization of him as a “‘mere intermeddler’ in my (our) own family business.” CNN has reached out to the Saints’ legal representative for comment. The Saints were granted a trademark by the US Patent and Trademark Office in 1974 to use a stylized fleur-de-lis symbol having become a professional NFL team in 1967. Since then, the symbol – a three-petaled flower which has become an emblem of the city of New Orleans – has been closely associated with the Louisiana-based team and is displayed on players’ helmets. The Saints used the fleur-de-lis symbol in their debut NFL season in 1967. WAS/AP The fleur-de-lis has long been associated with the French royalty, its origins going back almost 1,000 years . Messier’s initial petition to the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board was dismissed in June 2024, a ruling he later appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Messier claims the fleur-de-lis symbol was used by his family for “several centuries,” according to court documents. But the federal court agreed with the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board’s decision that Messier’s claim failed to “allege any commercial interests in the mark, or that (Messier) owns or conducts any business under the mark, and thus he cannot allege entitlement,” per the court document. The ruling concluded that the case had been dismissed, saying: “As Mr. Messier does not have standing, we lack jurisdiction to consider the merits of his appeal.” Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Sports Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.