https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-england-cornwall-67642168
Big wave surfer Tom Lowe back after near-death wipeout Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Big wave surfer Tom Lowe back after near-death wipeout Six months ago big wave surfer Tom Lowe was in hospital after the heaviest fall of his life. The surfer, from St Ives in Cornwall, had hit the reef at Teahupo'o in Tahiti and spent three weeks in hospital where he said he felt like he was dying. Now he is in Hawaii facing some of the biggest waves in the world, including here on the outer reefs of Oahu in Hawaii. 22 December 2023 St Ives Cornwall Hawaii French Polynesia Share Save Injured seal pups released after rehabilitation The hungry and injured pups were flown to Sussex for rehab and have been released. 11 Jan 2024 Cornwall 'You may not see it but I have a lot to deal with' As a BBC Young Reporter, Ella, 14, shares her experience of spina bifida. 4 Dec 2023 Cornwall Crowds gather to see stunning starling murmuration The phenomenon happens when groups of starlings come together to swoop and swirl across the sky. 2 Dec 2023 Cornwall Water rescue dogs looking for training lake The Newfoundlands need a distraction-free area to be trained in water safety measures. 26 Aug 2023 Cornwall Seal group urges beachgoers to ditch flying rings The plastic rings can get caught round the necks of seals with serious consequences say campaigners. 25 Aug 2023 Cornwall Gran, 101, becomes 'oldest person to fly on stage' Kate, from Camborne in Cornwall, takes to the skies after being nominated by her granddaughter. 16 Aug 2023 Cornwall Cobbler is shoe-in for social media stardom Joey Cope, from Cornwall, was taught by his grandad and will take on any shoe. 13 Jul 2023 Cornwall From GCSEs to the Glastonbury stage Oscar Brown from Cornwall says his Glastonbury performance was the "biggest opportunity" of his life. 28 Jun 2023 Cornwall On board HMS Richmond for Armed Forces Day The Plymouth-based anti-submarine warship was in Cornwall for the UK's Armed Forces Day event. 25 Jun 2023 Cornwall Funnel cloud spotted in Cornwall A BBC meteorologist describes it as a "baby tornado beginning to form but never quite getting there". 21 Jun 2023 Cornwall Thousands of poppies create annual spectacle Summer brings the fields around Crantock alive with an annual carpet of poppies. 16 Jun 2023 Cornwall Heavy storms cause flash flooding across Devon Witnesses reported "torrential" rain in Devon, with walls of water appearing following a deluge. 10 May 2023 Cornwall Big wave surfer seriously injured in 'brutal' fall He had internal bleeding, six broken ribs and feared he might not make it to hospital alive. 4 May 2023 Cornwall 'What's better than releasing seal pups?' Three seals nurtured back to health are released back into the sea in Cornwall. 21 Apr 2023 Cornwall Huge waves pound the Cornwall coast Cape Cornwall in West Cornwall on Wednesday when huge waves battered the coast. 13 Apr 2023 Cornwall How slot car racing eases man's autism Ian Ward learned his childhood love of slot car racing could help in adult life. 4 Apr 2023 Cornwall Rescued yachtsman very lucky - lifeboat coxswain The sailor, who was not wearing a lifejacket, was taken to hospital after he pulled from the water. 31 Mar 2023 Cornwall Remembering Jozef Stasiak The garden at St Mary's Catholic Primary School is the result of a huge effort by the school and the wider community. Jozef, who had complex health needs, died in December. 26 Mar 2023 Cornwall Cornish trucker collects rare bricks Ian Williams, from Liskeard, has collected about 300 bricks from around the world. 25 Mar 2023 Cornwall Basking shark spotted in Cornish harbour Olga Bates spotted the shark swimming in St Ives harbour. 23 Mar 2023 Cornwall British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.