https://edition.cnn.com/2025/04/22/tech/teens-social-media-mental-health/index.html
Nearly half of teens say social media is bad for youth mental health | CNN Business CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Business Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos More Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos Follow CNN Business World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Markets DOW S&P 500 NASDAQ Hot Stocks Fear & Greed Index ----- is driving the US market Latest Market News Tariffs and stock market volatility are clouding spring home shopping season Millennials are giving Gen Z advice for their first potential recession How Trump’s 145% China tariffs could crush American small businesses: ‘There’s no facility here that makes what we need’ Hot Stocks ----- is driving the US market Something isn't loading properly. Please check back later. Ad Feedback Business Tech • 4 min read Nearly half of teens say social media is bad for youth mental health, report finds By Clare Duffy , CNN 4 minute read Published
          7:30 AM EDT, Tue April 22, 2025 Link Copied! Follow: Social media See your latest updates Of more than 1,000 US teens surveyed by the Pew Research Center last year, nearly half say they've cut back on their smartphone and social media use amid concerns about technology's impact on teens' mental health. Cavan Images/Getty Images New York CNN — The impact of social media on young people’s mental health and well-being is a growing topic of concern among parents, educators, health care professionals and regulators. And now, nearly half of US teens say social media has a mostly negative effect on people their age — and almost the same proportion say they’re cutting back on social media use. That’s according to a Pew Research Center report published Tuesday that asked American teens and parents about their attitudes around social media and smartphones. It offers an updated glimpse into how teens view their own social media use, following a separate Pew study from December that found nearly half of US teens say they’re online almost constantly. The report comes as parents and regulators have called on social media companies to do more to keep young people safe — and prevent them from spending too much time — on their platforms. Last year, then-Surgeon General Vivek Murthy asked Congress to require a label on social media apps warning of risks to young people, similar to those on alcohol and tobacco. Australia also passed a world-first law banning teens under 16 from social media. And in March, Utah Governor Spencer Cox signed a landmark bill requiring app stores to verify users’ ages and share that data with app developers, in a bid to protect teens from accessing age-inappropriate content online. Xavier Lorenzo/Moment RF/Getty Images Related article More than a third of teens say they spend too much time on their phones, new study finds To conduct the study, Pew surveyed 1,391 US teens ages 13 to 17 and their parents during September and October of last year. Of the teen respondents, 48% said they think social media has a “mostly negative” effect on people their age, up from 32% when Pew asked the same questions in a different survey in 2022. Just 11% of teens today say they think social media is “mostly positive” for their peers. But just 14% of teens say social media has a mostly negative impact on themselves, although that figure has jumped from 9% in 2022. Still, teens are seemingly trying to rein in their own social media use; 45% say they spend too much time on social media, up from 36% in 2022. And 44% of teen respondents said they have cut back on time spent on social media and their smartphones. “The overuse of social media in our society seems to be the main cause of depression among those in my age group,” a teen boy quoted in the report wrote. “People seem to let themselves be affected by the opinions of people they don’t know, and it wreaks havoc upon people’s states of mind.” .The report suggests that the effects of social media vary somewhat by gender and race and ethnicity. Teen girls, for example, are slightly more likely than teen boys to say social media has hurt the amount of sleep they get, their productivity, their mental health and their confidence. Those findings are consistent with research from 2019 that has suggested the link between social media and depression may be stronger in teen girls than boys, and that social media may harm girls’ mental health by increasing their exposure to bullying and decreasing activities that have a positive impact on wellbeing, such as sleep. In 2021, internal documents from social media giant Meta, made public after a whistleblower disclosure, showed that the company’s research found that Instagram makes “body image issues worse for one in three teen girls.” Meta has since introduced new policies and practices aimed at improving teen safety, including updated AI tools announced Monday designed to catch teens lying about their age on the app. Terms of Service with Clare Duffy Do Young People Need Smartphones? A Parent and a Teen Weigh In. It’s become the norm for teens and tweens to have smartphones — but lately, the pendulum has been swinging back. Parents and educators worry smartphones can cause distraction, loneliness and other mental health challenges among young people. So when is the right time to give your kid a smartphone, if at all? Mark SooHoo, a parent involved with the organization Wait Until 8th, shares why he and his wife are holding off until at least high school. Plus, high school senior and Luddite Club co-founder Jameson Butler explains why she ditched her smartphone altogether.

﻿
If you’ve had to navigate this conversation with your kids, I’d love to hear how it went. You can reach us by email at CNNTermsofService@Gmail.com. Feb 04, 2025 • 33 min ... Apple Podcasts Spotify Pandora TuneIn iHeart Radio Radio.com Amazon RSS Girls (48%) are more likely to say they’ve cut back on social media use than boys (40%), according to Tuesday’s report. General mental wellbeing among teens is a broader concern; 89% of parents and 77% of teens reported being either “somewhat” or “extremely” worried about the issue. But parents are still more anxious about how social media is impacting their children than the teens themselves, the report suggests. Social media (44%) and technology generally (14%) ranked highest as the one thing parents believed negatively impacted teens’ mental health, whereas only 22% and 8% of teens, respectively, said the same. “Technology, which is making them more afraid to try things, makes them less creative and makes them less likely to figure out how to solve their own problems, whether relationally or physically,” a mother of a teen said in the survey. However, it’s not all bad. Nearly six in 10 teens said social media gives them “a place to show their creative side,” and even more said it helps them stay connected to what’s happening in their friends’ lives. Related Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback CNN Business Videos CNN Video This week’s Middle East business news: From Trump’s Gulf tour to mega energy deals 1:55 Apr 25, 2025 CNN Video The ‘life-saving’ gift that Beyoncé’s grandmother passed down to her 3:21 Apr 25, 2025 CNN Video He bought gold at Costco. He’s not cashing in yet 1:58 Apr 25, 2025 Clipped From Video Video Opportunities abound for some in Swiss watchmaking 3:37 Apr 25, 2025 Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Business Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Business Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in real time, except for the S&P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes. All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor’s and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.