https://play.google.com/store/books/details/Oscar_Wilde_The_Remarkable_Rocket?id=d2m2DwAAQBAJ
The Remarkable Rocket by Oscar Wilde - Books on Google Play Games Apps Books Kids google_logo Play Games Apps Books Kids none search help_outline Sign in with Google play_apps Library & devices payment Payments & subscriptions reviews My Play activity redeem Offers Play Pass Personalization in Play settings Settings Privacy Policy • Terms of Service Games Apps Books Kids The Remarkable Rocket Oscar Wilde Jan 2021 · Strelbytskyy Multimedia Publishing 4.5 star 31 reviews Ebook 7 Pages EGP 1.64 Buy Free sample Add to wishlist About this ebook arrow_forward This story concerns a Firework, who is one of many to be let off at the wedding of a prince and princess. He considers all of the other characters with whom he interacts, the other fireworks, a frog, a dragonfly and a duck, to be his inferiors and criticizes them for not paying sufficient attention to him. The Rocket considers himself to be an unappreciated genius and firmly believes that he is destined for greatness. However, he fails to fulfill his only function, that of entertaining people by rising up into the air and exploding in front of an audience. It was first published in 1888 in the anthology The Happy Prince and Other Tales, which, in addition to its title story, also includes "The Nightingale and the Rose", “The Happy Prince”, “The Selfish Giant” and "The Devoted Friend". Fiction & literature Ratings and reviews Ratings and reviews aren’t verified info_outline arrow_forward Ratings and reviews aren’t verified info_outline 4.5 31 reviews 5 4 3 2 1 Nasrin Fathima more_vert Flag inappropriate June 18, 2024 very nice but good if I had full page in the online books Did you find this helpful? Yes No Ekram Hossain more_vert Flag inappropriate Show review history January 31, 2025 good Did you find this helpful? Yes No Raja Ansar more_vert Flag inappropriate June 1, 2023 Hhm I'm jmm you TN? nmnjnn Te Did you find this helpful? Yes No See all reviews Rate this ebook Tell us what you think. Write a review Reading information expand_more Smartphones and tablets Install the Google Play Books app for Android and iPad/iPhone . It syncs automatically with your account and allows you to read online or offline wherever you are. Laptops and computers You can listen to audiobooks purchased on Google Play using your computer's web browser. eReaders and other devices To read on e-ink devices like Kobo eReaders, you'll need to download a file and transfer it to your device. Follow the detailed Help Center instructions to transfer the files to supported eReaders. More by Oscar Wilde arrow_forward The Nightingale And The Rose Oscar Wilde Fiction & literature 4.2 star EGP 1.64 The Happy Prince and Other Stories Oscar Wilde Fiction & literature 4.2 star EGP 4.37 The Devoted Friend Oscar Wilde Fiction & literature 4.2 star EGP 1.64 Complete Fairy Tales of Oscar Wilde Oscar Wilde Fiction & literature 4.3 star EGP 272.24 Similar ebooks arrow_forward The Devoted Friend Oscar Wilde Fiction & literature 4.2 star EGP 1.64 12 Great Books of Christmas: The Holy Night, The Chimes, The Elves and the Shoemaker, The Fir Tree, A MERRY CHRISTMAS, A Letter from Santa Claus, A Russian Christmas Party Selma Lagerlof Fiction & literature 4.3 star EGP 4.92 The Happy Prince and Other Stories Oscar Wilde Fiction & literature 4.2 star EGP 4.37 The Nightingale And The Rose Oscar Wilde Fiction & literature 4.2 star EGP 1.64 Google Play Play Pass Play Points Gift cards Redeem Refund policy Kids & family Parent Guide Family sharing Terms of Service Privacy About Google Play Developers Google Store All prices include VAT. Egypt (English)