https://english.ahram.org.eg/News/535163.aspx
The drink that changed the world - Limelight - Al-Ahram Weekly - Ahram Online Sunday, 27 April 2025 French | عربي Home Egypt Egypt  Home Politics Society Courts & Law Foreign Affairs Health Urban & Transport Defence Tourism War on Gaza Business Business  Home Economy Markets & Companies Energy Tech Opinion World World  Home Region International Africa War in Ukraine War in Sudan Arts & Culture Arts & Culture  Home Screens Music Visual Art Stage & Street Sports Sports  Home Egyptian Football Talents Abroad World National Teams Africa Omni sports Multimedia Life & Style Life & Style  Home Style Health Food City Lights Antiquities Antiquities  Home Ancient Egypt Greco-Roman Coptic Islamic Museums Books Books  Home Reviews News Heritage Heritage  Home Walks Folk Arts Heritage special Photo Heritage Inspiring Minds Multimedia Al-Ahram Weekly Al-Ahram Weekly  Home Egypt Economy World Opinion Culture Limelight Heritage Features Focus Living Sufra Dayma Entre nous Autos Travel Interviews Special Nakba remembered Art Cinema Exhibitions Lectures Theater Music and dance Sports COP27 The drink that changed the world Lubna Abdel-Aziz Tuesday 12 Nov 2024 If we missed celebrating its international day, 1 October, it is time to make amends. We turn to Africa, “the cradle of humanity”, which gave humanity its favourite brew. Call it coffee, café, kopi, kaffee, or qahwa, we all cherish the warm, crisp, strong cup of coffee. It is therefore only naturally that there would be a national coffee day, first launched in 2015 and definitely overdue after 600 years of sheer bliss. On this day, you can earn a free cup of coffee by many businesses around the world, as they offer you “a hug in a mug”. It is a timely date to rejoice in the cool autumnal breeze and indulge in the magic brew. In fact, any season and every season is the favourite hot beverage in all climes, temperate or cold. The story began over 1,000 years ago, on the upland plains of Ethiopia, in Kaffa. A goat herder, Kaldi, was grazing his flock when he noticed the herd was becoming frisky and frolicsome, hopping gleefully around a shiny, dark-leafed shrub with red berries. Curious, Kaldi tried the strange berries and was soon kicking and prancing with his goats. Sheikh Omar, a Yemenite in exile, noticed the exhilarating effects of the berries, and on his return to his native Yemen in the city of Mocha he experimented the berries further. He discovered a remedy for lethargy by mixing the berries with animal fat and water. A dose of that concoction was all that was needed for “a shot in the arm”. That “pick me up” power is the caffeine now found in colas, teas, and coffee that has been controversial for decades. Considered by some as a drug, caffeine has proven to be more addictive than other drugs including tobacco, alcohol and marijuana. Coffee accounts for about 75 per cent of the adult intake of all caffeine consumption, though some of it has been found in children’s drinks nowadays. Highly addictive substances are not legally or socially acceptable, except for coffee. Taken in small amounts caffeine expands blood vessels, stimulates body and mind, and is harmless for most of us. When coffee found its way to the West it literally changed the world. Once discovered, they never looked back. Its past journey was enchanting, mysterious, and exotic, full of daring adventure and intrigue. A rapturous saga, much like the Arabian Nights, it unfolds a panoramic tale of epic proportions, “of how coffee trees came to girdle the globe in countries that lie along the equator between the Tropic of Cancer and Capricorn.” After Africa, coffee found its way to Yemen and by the 15th century, the beans learned to roast them in a special way that was ecstatic. Coffee has been part of Arab culture for centuries. The word qahwa is found on tablets that go back 1,000 years. The golden bean moved from Arabia to Turkey in the 15th century, where the first coffee shops called Kiva Han started in 1457 AD. Turks flocked to the coffee houses to enrich their senses with the juice of the bean, to listen to music, play games, and discuss current affairs, much like today. However, it was not an easy ride and by 1543 Sultan Murad 1V of the Ottoman Empire considered coffee suspect and a capital offence. Still, by the end of the century Constantinople boasted of an impressive number of 600 coffee houses. When coffee beans reached the Christian world by the 17th century, an Abbott threw them in the fire, believing them to be the work of the devil. Some looked on the beverage with suspicion, fearing to be “the bitter invention of Satan”. When it came to Venice through the trade with Turkey, the clergy condemned it in 1615. It was pope Clement VIII who, upon tasting coffee, declared: “Why, this Satan’s drink is so delicious that it would be a pity to let the infidels have exclusive use of it.” It is said that the pope blessed the roasting beans when they released their heavenly aroma. His monks who made the hot black brew, had the Western world under its spell. The French made coffee drinking the height of European fashion because king Louis XIV loved the brew. So did the philosopher Voltaire later, although many still considered it “a slow poison”, to which he responded: “Yes, it is a remarkably slow poison indeed for I have sipped it every day for more than 75 years.” The US was introduced to the magic spell of the bean in 1607, now it is the largest consumer of coffee per capita. How Brazil came to be the top producer, exporting 40 per cent of the world’s coffee? Cherchez la femme, as the French say. The French seeds were carefully guarded, but the Brazilian envoy to French Guinea, Francesco de Mello, charmed the wife of the French governor who in turn sent him some coffee seeds in a flowerpot. That is how to make “an awful lot of coffee in Brazil”. Researchers’ latest findings are encouraging for all faithful coffee lovers. Harvard University study discovered that three to four cups a day lower the risk of a host of diseases and specific mortality, including diabetes, dementia, Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, cardiovascular diseases and colorectal, liver, and renal cancers. No wonder one billion out of eight billion people (12.6 billion) love to drink coffee daily. The tale of 1,001 years of coffee has changed the history of the world. “Coffee, which makes the politician wise, And sees through all things with his half shut eyes.” Alexander Pope (1688-1744) * A version of this article appears in print in the 14 November, 2024 edition of Al-Ahram Weekly Follow us on: Facebook Instagram Whatsapp Short link: Latest News CAF U20 Africa Cup of Nations fixtures (1st round, group stage) Live score: Egypt v South Africa (CAF U-20 Africa Cup of Nations) Egyptian film Life After Siham to screen at Cannes parallel section ACID Italy Serie A fixtures & results (34th matchday) Egyptian actresses May El-Ghety, May Calamawy join cast of new US production..... Egyptian-Norwegian artist Britt Boutros Ghali exhibits works in Berlin, Seoul Book Review: Pope Francis – the man who listened before he preached Efforts for restoring Gaza ceasefire should be intensified: El-Sisi to Hungarian..... All eyes turn to conclave as Pope Francis tomb opens to public Peruvian actors with Down syndrome tear down barriers in London's  show Most Viewed A massive explosion at Iranian port kills 8, injures around 750 China development contributes to world peace: Experts at Chinese Modernization..... Egyptian Players Abroad: Abdelmonem helps Nice win, Sam Morsy plays but Ipswich..... Egypt’s annual unemployment rate drops to 6.6 percent in 2024: CAPMAS Palestinian president Abbas appoints aide as potential successor English Premier League results & fixtures (34th matchday) Match facts: Newcastle United v Ipswich Town (English Premier League) Koller’s future at Ahly in doubt after Champions League exit Israel's 60-day blockade: Palestinians struggling to feed their families Israeli strike kills 10 including 5 children amid efforts to resume Gaza ceasefire Also In Limelight Fasting is healing The flavours of Ramadan ‘If winter comes’ It should be spring Hollywood loves Wicked What’s in our stars? Other worlds of wonder The bells are ringing Egypt War on Gaza Business Opinion World Arts & Culture Sports Life & Style Antiquities Books Heritage Multimedia Al-Ahram Weekly Work For Us About us © 2020 All Rights Reserved Ahram Online.