https://www.bbc.com/audio/brand/p09dj358
BBC Audio | Gangster Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Save Share Gangster Tony Bellew uncovers the dark side of football hooliganism. When bloody battles and rivalries, spilled from the terraces onto the streets, told by those who lived it. Save Share Episodes (63 available) Hooligans Gangster Presents... Hooligans Hooligans Gangster Presents... Hooligans Tony Bellew uncovers the inside story of Britain’s football hooligans. 4 Mar 2025 • 3 mins Save Hooligans Hooligans 1. A Different Ball Game Hooligans Hooligans 1. A Different Ball Game Tony Bellew investigates the inside story of Britain's football hooligans. 7 Mar 2025 • 27 mins Save Hooligans Hooligans 2. The Darkest Night Hooligans Hooligans 2. The Darkest Night The hooligan riots that cast a shadow over British football forever. 7 Mar 2025 • 26 mins Save Hooligans Hooligans 3. Riots and Reputations Hooligans Hooligans 3. Riots and Reputations The hooligans become public enemy number one in the wake of Heysel. 7 Mar 2025 • 23 mins Save Hooligans Hooligans 4. Collateral Damage Hooligans Hooligans 4. Collateral Damage The football violence leads to serious injury and death. 7 Mar 2025 • 27 mins Save Hooligans Hooligans 5. Going Underground Hooligans Hooligans 5. Going Underground A new tactic is needed to bring the hooligan firms down. 7 Mar 2025 • 24 mins Save Hooligans Hooligans 6. End Game Hooligans Hooligans 6. End Game The police carry out raids on their top targets but will they stop the hooligans? 7 Mar 2025 • 28 mins Save The Story of the Daniels and the Lyons Introducing Gangster: The Story of the Daniels and the Lyons The Story of the Daniels and the Lyons Introducing Gangster: The Story of the Daniels and the Lyons A bloody and bitter feud between two of Glasgow's most notorious crime families. 2 Dec 2024 • 2 mins Save The Story of the Daniels and the Lyons The Daniels and the Lyons: 1. King of the Jungle The Story of the Daniels and the Lyons The Daniels and the Lyons: 1. King of the Jungle Jamie Daniel rises from scrap metal dealer to major player in the Glasgow drug world. 3 Dec 2024 • 33 mins Save The Story of the Daniels and the Lyons The Daniels and the Lyons: 2. Ollie and Mr Green The Story of the Daniels and the Lyons The Daniels and the Lyons: 2. Ollie and Mr Green As Jamie Daniels' drug empire grows, a violent feud begins that will change lives forever. 3 Dec 2024 • 30 mins Save ... British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.