https://english.ahram.org.eg/News/544659.aspx
Liverpool, what took you so long? - Sports - Al-Ahram Weekly - Ahram Online Sunday, 27 April 2025 French | عربي Home Egypt Egypt  Home Politics Society Courts & Law Foreign Affairs Health Urban & Transport Defence Tourism War on Gaza Business Business  Home Economy Markets & Companies Energy Tech Opinion World World  Home Region International Africa War in Ukraine War in Sudan Arts & Culture Arts & Culture  Home Screens Music Visual Art Stage & Street Sports Sports  Home Egyptian Football Talents Abroad World National Teams Africa Omni sports Multimedia Life & Style Life & Style  Home Style Health Food City Lights Antiquities Antiquities  Home Ancient Egypt Greco-Roman Coptic Islamic Museums Books Books  Home Reviews News Heritage Heritage  Home Walks Folk Arts Heritage special Photo Heritage Inspiring Minds Multimedia Al-Ahram Weekly Al-Ahram Weekly  Home Egypt Economy World Opinion Culture Limelight Heritage Features Focus Living Sufra Dayma Entre nous Autos Travel Interviews Special Nakba remembered Art Cinema Exhibitions Lectures Theater Music and dance Sports COP27 Liverpool, what took you so long? Alaa Abdel-Ghani , Thursday 17 Apr 2025 At last, Mohamed Salah signed a new two-year contract with the English club but the negotiations dragged on seemingly forever There was always a sense this would be how it would end. That not in a million years would Liverpool deliberately part ways with Mohamed Salah, their Egyptian king most responsible for the enviable position the club finds itself in these days: on the brink of a Premier League title. That Liverpool would sign Salah to a new contract was as assured as night follows day. In the end, it did not take a million years, but it sure felt like it. The long, drawn out wait came to an end on Friday 11 April when the 32-year-old Salah put pen to paper on a new deal which will keep him at Anfield until 2027. Salah’s deal is understood to be worth around £25 million per season which works out to £480,000 a week. Before Friday, he was making £350,000 a week (Erling Haaland is the Premier League’s best paid player on a basic wage of £500,000 a week, with Liverpool making Salah the second highest). “Of course I’m very excited,” Salah told Liverpoolfc.com. “We have a great team now. Before also we had a great team. But I signed because I think we have a chance to win other trophies and enjoy my football. “It’s great. I had my best years here. I played eight years, hopefully it’s going to be 10. Enjoying my life here, enjoying my football. I had the best years in my career.” Actually, Salah has had one of the best careers of any player. So far this season, he has scored 32 goals in just 46 appearances in all competitions – 27 of which have come in the Premier League, making him the division’s leading marksman. These strikes have been supplemented by 22 assists for his teammates. Only his 44-goal debut year for Jurgen Klopp compares. He has won three Golden Boot awards as the Premier League’s top scorer and is set to win the accolade for a fourth time this season with six more goals than Manchester City’s Haaland with six matches remaining. Scoring 243 goals across 394 appearances - outright third in the Reds’ all-time top scorers list - Salah has been voted as the league’s player of the year twice. Triumph in the league this year would be the second Premier League title of Salah’s career, adding to the Champions League, FA Cup and two League Cup trophies he has won with Liverpool. Salah’s 184 goals in the English top flight is the joint fifth highest in Premier League history, while he also now sits in the top 10 for assists. By posting all these monster figures, Salah has cemented himself as a Liverpool icon since his transfer from AS Roma in the summer of 2017. Remaining in Liverpool may have seemed obvious, a forgone conclusion, but for a long while it was not. In September last year, he said in a Sky Sports interview it was his “last season” at Anfield because nobody at the club had talked to him about a new contract. Two months later, following a win at Southampton, Salah stated he was “disappointed” at not having been offered a new deal by Liverpool and that he was “probably more out than in”. In January this year Salah again spoke publicly about his contract situation when he said the two parties were “far away from any progress”. Salah rarely talks to reporters about his contracts or anything else - in Southampton it was only the third time in seven and a half years he had stopped to speak to journalists. Hanging out the dirty laundry for all to see in such rare manner seemed to be a plea by a player desperate to stay in Liverpool but who would not wait forever. The impossible – Salah leaving Liverpool – suddenly seemed possible. Fingers started to point at the owners, Fenway Sports Group (FSG), and new sporting director Richard Hughes. Many saw Liverpool not heeding Salah’s growing frustration as a huge risk given he could have signed a pre-contract with overseas clubs from 1 January. One such club could have been Al-Hilal of Saudi Arabia. Liverpool rejected a Hilal offer worth a reported £142 million in 2023. These days the money had jumped to a reported £500 million. The financial lure of a move to Saudi Arabia was clear. Bagging one of the greatest and most recognisable Arab footballers would have been, for all parties, a tremendous boon. Liverpool management had to act but apparently it wasn’t that easy. “We cannot pay the same wages across the board as Real Madrid,” senior Liverpool figures have sung in unison for 15 years. That meant that Liverpool’s top brass could not just get out a blank check and let Salah write whatever numbers he fancied. The contract had to be in keeping with their principles, one being not handing players over 30 years of age lucrative new contracts - no matter how good they are. Salah will be 33 in June. The money which remained after a Salah deal also had to still allow the club to aggressively attack the summer transfer market. There was also the matter of having the club’s best three players out of contract. Defenders Virgil van Dijk and Trent Alexander-Arnold are also out of contract this summer, with Alexander-Arnold reportedly linked with a move to Real Madrid. A similar conclusion to that of Salah for Virgil van Dijk’s contract negotiations is thought to be imminent. Probably Liverpool’s biggest inherent fear was how long could Salah still play at his peak. One need only look at Kevin De Bruyne at Manchester City this season, a legendary footballer who could no longer consistently perform to hitherto world-class levels. But Salah’s form was the compelling evidence required that he is an exceptional footballer for whom an exception must be made. Even Salah’s recent dip in form outlined his importance: when he stopped scoring, Liverpool started losing. All players drop off at different rates, and very few leave top clubs at the top of their game. The two-year contract offered Salah a level of security players of his age are not often afforded. If money was Salah’s guiding light, he’d have left Liverpool for the Saudi Pro League. Saudi Arabia would have been a goldmine for Salah financially, but it could not offer the biggest honours in the game, something he can still pursue at Liverpool. It’s the sporting challenge that drove Salah’s decision. He put sporting ambition ahead of his wallet. So, Salah got what he wanted and so did Liverpool. Apparently, saying nothing in public did not mean the club was doing nothing in private. Liverpool’s quiet approach ultimately paid off. The club calculated that while Salah might find more money elsewhere, when it comes to the whole package, no other club was more attractive. One wonders if the dance of the past eight months was really necessary. It seems the conditions had to be just right before a middle ground was finally reached between a hugely popular player and his hugely popular club. * A version of this article appears in print in the 17 April, 2025 edition of Al-Ahram Weekly Follow us on: Facebook Instagram Whatsapp Short link: Latest News CAF U20 Africa Cup of Nations fixtures (1st round, group stage) Live score: Egypt v South Africa (CAF U-20 Africa Cup of Nations) Egyptian film Life After Siham to screen at Cannes parallel section ACID Italy Serie A fixtures & results (34th matchday) Egyptian actresses May El-Ghety, May Calamawy join cast of new US production..... Egyptian-Norwegian artist Britt Boutros Ghali exhibits works in Berlin, Seoul Book Review: Pope Francis – the man who listened before he preached Efforts for restoring Gaza ceasefire should be intensified: El-Sisi to Hungarian..... All eyes turn to conclave as Pope Francis tomb opens to public Peruvian actors with Down syndrome tear down barriers in London's  show Most Viewed A massive explosion at Iranian port kills 8, injures around 750 China development contributes to world peace: Experts at Chinese Modernization..... Egyptian Players Abroad: Abdelmonem helps Nice win, Sam Morsy plays but Ipswich..... Egypt’s annual unemployment rate drops to 6.6 percent in 2024: CAPMAS Palestinian president Abbas appoints aide as potential successor English Premier League results & fixtures (34th matchday) Match facts: Newcastle United v Ipswich Town (English Premier League) Koller’s future at Ahly in doubt after Champions League exit Israel's 60-day blockade: Palestinians struggling to feed their families Israeli strike kills 10 including 5 children amid efforts to resume Gaza ceasefire Also In Sports Liverpool, what took you so long? Primed for Africa’s U-20 Zamalek keep African volleyball crown The Zizo saga The Big Three Futsal for first time Almost there Easiest three points Egypt War on Gaza Business Opinion World Arts & Culture Sports Life & Style Antiquities Books Heritage Multimedia Al-Ahram Weekly Work For Us About us © 2020 All Rights Reserved Ahram Online.