https://www.cnn.com/2025/04/10/business/manufacturing-us-jobs-trump-tariffs/index.html
Trump wants to revive US manufacturing. That’s not so easy | CNN Business CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Business Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos More Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos Follow CNN Business World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Markets DOW S&P 500 NASDAQ Hot Stocks Fear & Greed Index ----- is driving the US market Latest Market News Tariffs and stock market volatility are clouding spring home shopping season Millennials are giving Gen Z advice for their first potential recession How Trump’s 145% China tariffs could crush American small businesses: ‘There’s no facility here that makes what we need’ Hot Stocks ----- is driving the US market Something isn't loading properly. Please check back later. Ad Feedback Trump wants to revive US manufacturing. That’s not so easy By Samantha Delouya , CNN 6 minute read Published
          8:00 AM EDT, Thu April 10, 2025 Link Copied! Follow: Tariffs See your latest updates An automated welding machine welds steel at HCC, a company that uses parts to make combines, at the factory in Mendota, Illinois, on February 21, 2025. Vincent Alban/Reuters CNN — In 1970, more than a quarter of American workers held jobs in the manufacturing sector. Today, it’s only about 8% . The Trump administration says sweeping tariffs will reverse this decades-long decline. But a vision of reinvigorated factory towns and assembly lines that defined America 50 years ago may be out of step with the realities of 2025. One of the tariff plan’s architects, White House senior counselor Peter Navarro, says the plan’s “endgame” is “to fill up all of the half-empty factories that now are operating at low capacities around Detroit and the greater Midwest area.” Yet America is far different now compared to the Rust Belt’s glory days five decades ago, when millions of workers were employed to perform specific tasks along assembly lines. Today, in an age of automation and artificial intelligence, factory floors are increasingly filled with robots doing that work instead. That means new and reopened US factories will require fewer workers with more specialized skills. “The job has very much changed, and yes, there has been a dynamic change in the number of workers needed to it,” said Carolyn Lee, the executive director of the Manufacturing Institute, the workforce development and education affiliate of the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM). That means the president’s tariff policies, which have been met with resistance by some in the business community and have roiled global stock markets , may only be one piece of an effort to usher in the manufacturing renaissance the Trump administration hopes for. If tariffs successfully push companies to expand their manufacturing capabilities in the US, experts say the challenge will be training Americans to work in modern manufacturing roles — and getting them interested in doing so. ‘Mismatched’ skills The story of the long, slow loss of manufacturing jobs has loomed large in the US. In the decades after World War II, the US led the world in manufacturing. But over the last 50 years, those jobs have largely moved abroad, and many US factories shut down or stalled, devastating the economic prospects of entire towns and cities in the country’s Rust Belt. Trump has long railed against the loss of America’s manufacturing prowess, and last week he used it as both a backdrop and a rallying cry when announcing the most extensive tariff package in at least a century: a baseline 10% tariff applied across all countries, with even higher rates for the 60 countries Trump’s administration deemed the “worst offenders.” “American steel workers, auto workers, farmers and skilled craftsmen… They watched in anguish as foreign leaders have stolen our jobs, foreign cheaters have ransacked our factories,” Trump said during the announcement from the White House Rose Garden last week. It’s still up for debate whether free trade is predominantly to blame for the decline in US manufacturing, though, as several studies have pointed to automation leading to more job losses than outsourcing. In 1960, workers set a final drive assembly in a Chevrolet factory in Cleveland. Keystone-France/Gamma-Keystone/Getty Images Even so, the US manufacturing sector had been on a modest rebound before Trump’s tariff announcement. Several companies — including Nvidia, Apple and Stellantis — have announced investments in American manufacturing in recent months, for which the White House took credit . But with the unemployment rate at 4.2%, there are more open manufacturing jobs than there are willing Americans to fill them. As of February 2025, there were 482,000 manufacturing job openings, according to the latest Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey. In a report from last year, the Manufacturing Institute and Deloitte estimated that there would be 1.9 million unfilled jobs in manufacturing by 2033. Investments in US manufacturing would likely push the number of unfilled jobs even higher. Many modern manufacturing jobs will require knowledge of software, data analytics and coding, Lee said. Other positions will require workers who can repair the robots on a factory floor. While many of these jobs won’t necessitate a college degree, they do require certifications and training, she added. “There’s no one kind of manufacturing job, but the thing that is common to every one of these jobs is that they will require skills,” said Lee. “The majority of the jobs in the sector are not entry-level jobs that have no skills.” Olaf Groth, who teaches about the future of the global economy at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley, said that he agrees with efforts to reshore manufacturing, but they should be coupled with efforts to ensure America’s workers are prepared for the work. “The skills US workers have are mismatched for manufacturing right now,” Groth said. “What we need to do is lift the majority of American labor from mid-skilled to high-skilled.” Uncertainty in the age of AI Meanwhile, critics say tariffs may hurt many of the workers they claim to protect. Higher tariffs often translate into higher prices , which often hit lower-income families the hardest. “At the end of the day, tariffs are a tax on imports,” a February note from JPMorgan read. “The tax incidence nearly always falls on domestic sellers and consumers, not foreign producers.” When Trump announced tariffs on $34 billion worth of imports from China during his first term in 2018, Ravin Gandhi, then the CEO of GMM Nonstick Coating, a supplier of nonstick coatings for cookware, was a vocal opponent of the policy, arguing the tariffs would make his products more expensive for American consumers. Gandhi left his role at GMM last year to work in venture capital investing. Since then, his opinion on tariffs has evolved. He now supports the president’s efforts to bring manufacturing back to the US through tariffs. Gandhi said there was one theme he had been hearing from friends and colleagues: “Robots and automation.” Workers load a part as robotic equipment assembles R1T truck bodies in a marriage line on April 11, 2022, at the Rivian electric vehicle plant in Normal. Brian Cassella/Chicago Tribune/Tribune News Service/Getty Images “I have so many friends who are manufacturing entrepreneurs, and they are raving about the cost savings that they’re seeing as they start to automate,” he added. “These are machines. They don’t need breaks. They don’t need Christmas off.” Gandhi said that he had already seen automation replace some of GMM’s manufacturing jobs before he left his post as CEO, but he remains optimistic that new technology will usher in new kinds of jobs for American workers. “I’m a techno-optimist. I do believe that five years from now, there are going to be wide swaths of jobs that don’t exist today that you can’t even fathom,” he said. It’s a question that extends beyond the Rust Belt. Artificial intelligence threatens to disrupt a significant number of American industries , not just manufacturing, and many experts are pondering which types of jobs will be needed amid a technological upheaval. A January World Economic Forum survey found that 41% of employers across all industries intend to downsize their workforce as AI automates certain tasks. “We need to define what are the impacts of industrial AI and what those impacts will be on workers and skills,” said Lee of the Manufacturing Institute. “In the absence of knowledge, I think there’s a lot of fear and worry. We need to be able to help train the people in the skills they’ll need.” Related Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback CNN Business Videos CNN Video This week’s Middle East business news: From Trump’s Gulf tour to mega energy deals 1:55 Apr 25, 2025 CNN Video The ‘life-saving’ gift that Beyoncé’s grandmother passed down to her 3:21 Apr 25, 2025 CNN Video He bought gold at Costco. He’s not cashing in yet 1:58 Apr 25, 2025 Clipped From Video Video Opportunities abound for some in Swiss watchmaking 3:37 Apr 25, 2025 Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Business Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Business Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in real time, except for the S&P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes. All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor’s and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.