https://english.ahram.org.eg/News/538172.aspx
Don't miss "Beauty in Coptic Art" lecture by Marlin Farag at the IIC - Lectures - Al-Ahram Weekly - Ahram Online Sunday, 27 April 2025 French | عربي Home Egypt Egypt  Home Politics Society Courts & Law Foreign Affairs Health Urban & Transport Defence Tourism War on Gaza Business Business  Home Economy Markets & Companies Energy Tech Opinion World World  Home Region International Africa War in Ukraine War in Sudan Arts & Culture Arts & Culture  Home Screens Music Visual Art Stage & Street Sports Sports  Home Egyptian Football Talents Abroad World National Teams Africa Omni sports Multimedia Life & Style Life & Style  Home Style Health Food City Lights Antiquities Antiquities  Home Ancient Egypt Greco-Roman Coptic Islamic Museums Books Books  Home Reviews News Heritage Heritage  Home Walks Folk Arts Heritage special Photo Heritage Inspiring Minds Multimedia Al-Ahram Weekly Al-Ahram Weekly  Home Egypt Economy World Opinion Culture Limelight Heritage Features Focus Living Sufra Dayma Entre nous Autos Travel Interviews Special Nakba remembered Art Cinema Exhibitions Lectures Theater Music and dance Sports COP27 Don't miss "Beauty in Coptic Art" lecture by Marlin Farag at the IIC Reham El-Adawi , Tuesday 7 Jan 2025 Farag Italian Cultural Institute 3 El-Sheikh El Marsafy St, Zamalek, Tel 02 2735 5423/2735 8791 Thurs 9, 6pm: On occasion of the "Artistic Manifestations" art exhibition, the Italian Archaeological Centre presents the first meeting of the "Religions and Heritage Lectures Series" of conferences dedicated to the relationships between religious history and cultural heritage (both tangible and intangible). The project is part of the conference cycle “Religions and Heritage” and is dedicated to the aesthetic conceptions of the different religious traditions of Egypt from antiquity to the contemporary age, and their influences on artistic production over the centuries. The first lecture titled "Beauty in Ancient Egyptian Arts" by Kemet Club member Dr. Sohila Omar and architect Noha Adel will be dedicated to the general presentation of the project, and to the in-depth analysis of some aspects of artistic production in the Pharaonic and Coptic ages. Understanding Egyptian art lies in appreciating what it was created for. Ancient Egyptian art must be viewed from the standpoint of the ancient Egyptians not from our viewpoint. Kemit Heritage Club is a non-profit organization founded by architect Noha Adel (architect, Master of Building Technology), architects Yossra Gohar, and Sohaila Omar (Egyptologist). The club aims to build the reading, research, communication and analysis skills that young people need to become competent citizens and leaders by inspiring large numbers of young people to spread awareness of Egyptian civilization and identity. "Beauty in Coptic Art" second lecture will feature Marlin Farag, curator at the Coptic Museum, and coordinator of museum educational departments for people with special needs for Cairo and Giza museums, Museums Sector at the Ministry of Tourism and antiquities. She obtained a diploma in the Coptic Studies in Franciscan Cultural Centre for Coptic Studies Cairo in 2020-2022. Following the conference, the IIC will inaugurate "Artistic Manifestations" art exhibition. The exhibition gathers a diverse range of artworks, including oil paintings, and photographs. The lecture is in English and available in both presence and Online RSVP link: https://forms.gle/71voVBWLuK2pmxwF7 Zoom link: https://us06web.zoom.us/j/84968548383 Italian Archeological Centre 14 Champollion Street, Tahrir Square, Downtown, Cairo Wed 15, 6pm: "Printing Egyptology in Arabic in 19th Century Egypt" lecture is a resumption of the 'Exploring Egypt: Histories and Historiographies' Seminar sessions. The 8th lecture of the seminar series will feature Fatma Keshk and Ahmed Mansour. It is open to the public in the limit of available places. The lecture aims to discuss the beginnings and development of Arabic language publications by Egyptian scholars on all themes related to ancient Egypt in the wider context of development of press in 19th century Egypt. Fatma Keshk, Egyptologist and heritage outreach expert. She worked with several local and international institutions and was the director of the archaeology and architecture section at the center of documentation of cultural and natural heritage at Bibliotheca Alexandrina. Her recent research concentrates on reconstructing the unknown history of Egyptian Egyptology and on exploring the perceptions of history by contemporary Egyptians. Ahmed Mansour, Director of the Bibliotheca Alexandrina’s Writing and Scripts Centre. Mansour is an Egyptologist and researcher in the history of Arabic printing and in the history of writing by work and research. He has obtained two master degrees; one from Alexandria University and one from Turin University (Level II Master). He has joined several archaeological missions (Harwa Tomb 2011-2012) in Luxor, and (Nelson Island 2011-2012) in Alexandria. It will tackle the growing research on the history of Egyptian Egyptology and the knowledge produced by Egyptian scholars in exploring and disseminating local awareness of their ancient civilization highlighted the early presence of a strong interest to publish in Arabic various topics that explore ancient Egypt since the early 19th century AD. An example of these publications is the 1869 Arabic guide of the Bulaq Museum translated by Abdallāh Abū Al-Suʿūd (1820- 1878) from the original French version of Auguste Mariette (1821-1881). 'Exploring Egypt: Histories and Historiographies' series of seminars is organized in collaboration between the Italian Archaeological Centre of the Italian Cultural Institute in Cairo (CAI-IIC), the French Institute of Oriental Archaeology (IFAO), the German Archaeological Institute in Cairo (DAIK), the Polish Centre of Mediterranean Archaeology (PCMA), and the Flemish Institute in Cairo (NVIK). The seminar programme aims to discuss various aspects related to the production of historical knowledge about Egypt. The lecture is in English and available in both presence and Online, RSVP link: https://forms.gle/WvYuLPM6HnSyqfVs9 Zoom link: https://us06web.zoom.us/j/83859234858 Follow us on: Facebook Instagram Whatsapp Short link: Latest News CAF U20 Africa Cup of Nations fixtures (1st round, group stage) Live score: Egypt v South Africa (CAF U-20 Africa Cup of Nations) Egyptian film Life After Siham to screen at Cannes parallel section ACID Italy Serie A fixtures & results (34th matchday) Egyptian actresses May El-Ghety, May Calamawy join cast of new US production..... Egyptian-Norwegian artist Britt Boutros Ghali exhibits works in Berlin, Seoul Book Review: Pope Francis – the man who listened before he preached Efforts for restoring Gaza ceasefire should be intensified: El-Sisi to Hungarian..... All eyes turn to conclave as Pope Francis tomb opens to public Peruvian actors with Down syndrome tear down barriers in London's  show Most Viewed A massive explosion at Iranian port kills 8, injures around 750 China development contributes to world peace: Experts at Chinese Modernization..... Egyptian Players Abroad: Abdelmonem helps Nice win, Sam Morsy plays but Ipswich..... Egypt’s annual unemployment rate drops to 6.6 percent in 2024: CAPMAS Palestinian president Abbas appoints aide as potential successor English Premier League results & fixtures (34th matchday) Match facts: Newcastle United v Ipswich Town (English Premier League) Koller’s future at Ahly in doubt after Champions League exit Israel's 60-day blockade: Palestinians struggling to feed their families Israeli strike kills 10 including 5 children amid efforts to resume Gaza ceasefire Also In Lectures ​Don’t miss Omar Taher’s book discussion and signing ceremony at Diwan Zamalek ​Don’t miss a seminar remembers poet Salah Jahin at Amir Taz Palace Don’t miss Italian Archaeology Prof. Cristina Mondin lecture on the International Day of Monuments and Sites Don’t miss "Entertainment in Middle East History: The Serious Business of Leisure and Fun" history seminar at TCC ​Don’t miss "Entertainment in Middle East History: The Serious Business of Leisure and Fun" history seminar at TCC ​Join a seminar on global gold market by Islam Helmy at El Sawy Culturewheel and an inspiring talk with Menna El-Shiati at AUC Join Reham Elmorally's personal journey through gender, history and public policy at AUC Don't miss Concordia University History Professor Wilson Jacob's lecture at AUC Egypt War on Gaza Business Opinion World Arts & Culture Sports Life & Style Antiquities Books Heritage Multimedia Al-Ahram Weekly Work For Us About us © 2020 All Rights Reserved Ahram Online.