https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/m0028tmy
BBC Radio 4 - Desert Island Discs, Cyndi Lauper, singer-songwriter Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds Bitesize CBeebies CBBC Food Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Video Live More menu Search BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds Bitesize CBeebies CBBC Food Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Video Live Close menu BBC Radio 4 Desert Island Discs Home Episodes Podcasts Collections Articles Specials About FAQs Contact Us Main content Listen now Cyndi Lauper, singer-songwriter Desert Island Discs Cyndi Lauper, singer-songwriter, shares the eight tracks, book and luxury item she would take with her if cast away to a desert island. With Lauren Laverne. Show more Cyndi Lauper is a multi-award winning singer and songwriter. She has sold more than fifty million records, won an Emmy for acting and her musical Kinky Boots earned her a Tony and an Oliver award. Born in 1953, Cyndi grew up in a blue collar neighbourhood in New York. Her mother loved music and art and took her children to free exhibitions in New York which inspired Cyndi. As a very young girl, Cyndi listened to her mother’s extensive record collection and mimicked the voices she heard from musicals and operas. After a difficult family home life due to her mother’s turbulent marriages, Cyndi found solace in music and began writing songs when she was ten. She left home at seventeen determined to make it in the music industry. She started out as a singer in bands, whilst supporting herself doing a series of jobs. Early in her career, she lost her voice for almost a year after trying to make herself heard over amps which were too loud. Success eventually came when she released her debut solo album She’s So Unusual in 1983 – the first album by a female artist to spawn four consecutive US Top 5 singles. Cyndi lives in New York with her husband, David who is an actor. They met on a set of a film and rock legend Little Richard officiated their wedding. DISC ONE: Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun. Composed by Claude Debussy and performed by The Orchestre National de Lyon DISC TWO: All That Meat and No Potatoes - Louis Armstrong And His All-Stars DISC THREE: Puccini, “Un bel di, vedremo” (“One fine day, we shall see”) from Act II of Madame Butterfly. Performed by Maria Callas with Orchestra del Teatro alla Scala di Milano, conducted by Herbert von Karajan DISC FOUR: Getting to Know You - Marni Nixon DISC FIVE: I Want Hold Your Hand - The Beatles DISC SIX: A Sailboat in the Moonlight - Billie Holiday And Her Orchestra DISC SEVEN: One Way or Another - Blondie DISC EIGHT: Hound Dog - Big Mama Thornton BOOK CHOICE: Me Talk Pretty One Day by David Sedaris LUXURY ITEM: A luxury hotel CASTAWAY'S FAVOURITE: Puccini, “Un bel di, vedremo” (“One fine day, we shall see”) from Act II of Madame Butterfly. Performed by Maria Callas with Orchestra del Teatro alla Scala di Milano, conducted by Herbert von Karajan Presenter: Lauren Laverne Producer: Sarah Taylor Show less Download Choose your file Higher quality (128kbps) Lower quality (64kbps) Available now 49 minutes Last on Fri 14 Mar 2025 09:00 BBC Radio 4 More episodes Previous William Boyd, writer Next Professor Carl Jones, conservation biologist See all episodes from Desert Island Discs Eight things we learned from Cyndi Lauper’s Desert Island Discs Cyndi on her early memories of music, her childhood, and inspiring future generations. Featured . Broadcasts Sun 9 Mar 2025 10:00 BBC Radio 4 Fri 14 Mar 2025 09:00 BBC Radio 4 Featured in... Celebrating Women's Voices Stories, conversation & music handpicked for International Women's Day The Desert Island Discs podcast Subscribe or download individual episodes. Explore all of the Desert Island Discs podcasts Listen to over 2,000 programmes Click above to browse castaways, from 1942 to today. Or use the BBC search to find a castaway. To search, type ‘Desert Island Discs’ plus the castaway’s name. Articles Read the surprising things we've learned about some stand-out castaways. Podcast Desert Island Discs Castaway guests share the soundtrack of their lives. Related Content Similar programmes By genre: Factual > Arts, Culture & the Media Factual > Life Stories By format: Discussion & Talk Podcasts Schedule Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds Bitesize CBeebies CBBC Food Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Travel Earth Video Live Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Privacy Policy Cookies Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Make an editorial complaint BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2025 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.