https://edition.cnn.com/2025/02/27/entertainment/actor-gene-hackman-obit/index.html
Obituary: Gene Hackman, the Oscar-winning Everyman actor with an edge, dies at 95 | CNN CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity More Movies Television Celebrity Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Movies Television Celebrity Follow CNN Entertainment World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Ad Feedback Gene Hackman, the Oscar-winning Everyman actor with an edge, dies at 95 By Todd Leopold , CNN 7 minute read Updated
          2:11 PM EST, Thu February 27, 2025 Link Copied! Follow: People in entertainment See your latest updates Video Ad Feedback Watch: Gene Hackman’s most iconic movie roles 01:18 - Source: CNN Watch: Gene Hackman’s most iconic movie roles 01:18 CNN — Gene Hackman, the unpretentious actor whose performances in such films as “The French Connection,” “Hoosiers,” “Unforgiven” and “The Firm” elevated character roles to leading-man levels, has died. He was 95. Hackman and his wife, Betsy Arakawa, were found dead in their home in New Mexico along with their dog, according to the Santa Fe County Sheriff’s Office. Hackman’s best roles were often of conflicted authority figures or surprisingly clever white-collar villains. Many held a hint – sometimes more than a hint – of menace. He won an Oscar for his portrayal of New York cop Popeye Doyle in 1971’s “The French Connection,” a detective who gets his man but at a high cost. His surveillance expert in 1974’s “The Conversation” is single-minded to the point of obsession, losing all perspective. Even in 1986’s “Hoosiers,” in which Hackman played perhaps his most heroic role – a small-town high school basketball coach – he seems to revel in the man’s flaws. Yet he was always watchable, even magnetic. His cackle alone, which film critic David Edelstein described as “that familiar, slightly sinister ‘heh-heh-heh,’” inspired a YouTube tribute . “On one hand, he has the gravitas of the Lincoln Memorial. On the other hand, he has the physical forgettability of that middle-management guy in the seat next to you on the flight from Rochester to Omaha,” wrote Michael Hainey in a 2011 GQ article. “I’d like to think that if an actor was playing me, that he would do me in an honest fashion. I always try to approach the work in that way, regardless of how good or bad the script,” he told GQ. Gene Hackman won an Academy Award for his role playing New York police detective Popeye Doyle in 1971’s “The French Connection." The film also won best picture. Bettmann Archive/Getty Images Hackman, seen here alongside Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway, received his first Oscar nomination for his role as Buck Barrow in 1967's "Bonnie and Clyde." Everett Collection Hackman starred alongside Melvyn Douglas in 1970's "I Never Sang for My Father." Hackman received a supporting actor Oscar nomination for the role. Everett Collection Francis Ford Coppola directed Hackman in 1974's "The Conversation." Coppola shared a tribute to Hackman following his death, posting on Threads, “The loss of a great artist, always cause for both mourning and celebration.” Everett Collection Hackman, seen here alongside Ned Beatty, reprised his role as comic book villain Lex Luthor in 1980's "Superman II." Warner Bros/Everett Collection Hackman played basketball coach Norman Dale in the 1986 drama "Hoosiers." In 2001, the film was selected for preservation by the Library of Congress in the National Film Registry. Orion Pictures/Everett Collection Hackman portrayed John Herod, the sadistic mayor of the frontier town of Redemption, opposite Sharon Stone's The Lady in 1995's "The Quick and the Dead." TriStar Pictures/Everett Collection Hackman played Capt. Frank Ramsey in the 1995 submarine thriller "Crimson Tide." Buena Vista Pictures/Everett Collection Hackman as conservative senator Kevin Keeley in the 1996 comedy "The Birdcage." Frank Trapper/Corbis Entertainment/Getty Images Hackman received his fourth Oscar nomination for this role as FBI agent Rupert Anderson in 1988's "Mississippi Burning." Orion Pictures/Everett Collection Hackman won his second Oscar for his portrayal of Little Bill Daggett, the violent sheriff in Clint Eastwood’s 1992 film “Unforgiven.” Silver Screen Collection/Moviepix/Getty Images Hackman stars alongside Tom Cruise in 1993's "The Firm." Everett Collection Hackman as Jimmy McGinty in "The Replacements," the 2000 sports comedy loosely based on the 1987 NFL strike. Warner Bros/Everett Collection Hackman led an ensemble cast as Royal Tenenbaum in Wes Anderson's 2001 film "The Royal Tenenbaums." Buena Vista Pictures/Everett Collection "Welcome to Mooseport," a 2004 political satire, was Hackman's final film acting role. 20th Century Fox/Everett Collection In pictures: Gene Hackman's iconic on-screen roles Prev Next Perhaps it was his status as a late bloomer that made Hackman so conscious of the need to strip his roles of adornment. He was 36 before he broke through in 1967’s “Bonnie and Clyde” – a role he got after losing the part of Mr. Robinson in “The Graduate.” Before that, he’d served in the Marines, scuffled in California and New York (sometimes with a roommate, “Graduate” star Dustin Hoffman) and worked odd jobs, including truck driver and doorman. Still, he was fine just with being an actor – regardless of how others viewed his un-movie star face. “Neither Dustin nor myself looked like the leading men of that era, especially Dusty because he wasn’t tall,” he told Film Comment in 1988. “We were constantly told by acting teachers and casting directors that we were ‘character’ actors. The word ‘character’ denotes something less than attractive. “I accepted the limitation of always being the third or fourth guy down, and my goals were tiny,” he continued. “But I still wanted to be an actor.” His acting origins In the beginning, Hackman was lucky to be anything. He was born January 30, 1930, and grew up in Danville, Illinois. His parents divorced when he was an adolescent, and his father, a printing press operator, deserted the family. Hackman, 13 at the time, could still see his father’s goodbye wave in an interview more than four decades later. “I hadn’t realized how much one small gesture can mean,” he told Parade in 1989. “Maybe that’s why I became an actor.” The lack of a father, he added, gave him his hardworking drive; his mother, who had musical talent, and his infirm grandmother, who lived with the family, gave him a fondness for the arts. “I was too young to be left alone, and she was too old to be left alone, so I became very close with her,” he said of the latter. “She was a great storyteller.” Video Ad Feedback Gene Hackman told Larry King why he doesn't like watching his movies 03:17 - Source: CNN Gene Hackman told Larry King why he doesn't like watching his movies 03:17 He lied about his age to get into the Marines and served five years as a radio operator. He was brash and sometimes angry – he didn’t sugarcoat his attitude in interviews – and moved to Pasadena, California, in 1952 to take up acting. While there, he fell in with Hoffman at the Pasadena Playhouse. The two were voted “least likely to succeed.” That didn’t stop the pair, who moved to New York and became friends with a third struggling actor, Robert Duvall. Hoffman and Duvall became roommates; the three scavenged for parts. Hackman starting getting breaks in 1964, first on Broadway with “Any Wednesday” and then in the movie “Lilith.” The lead in “Lilith” was Warren Beatty, and he didn’t forget his co-star, still climbing, when he was casting “Bonnie and Clyde” a couple years later. Hackman’s performance as Clyde’s brother, Buck Barrow, brought him an Oscar nomination. At this point, Hackman could have relaxed into a long television career: He was the first choice for the role of Mike Brady on “The Brady Bunch.” But a combination of factors – including Hackman’s decision to pursue challenging movie roles and a contract eventual “Brady” star Robert Reed had with its studio – prompted Hackman to take such roles as the no-nonsense coach in 1969’s “Downhill Racer” and the conflicted son in “I Never Sang for My Father.” The latter earned him his second Oscar nomination. He wasn’t the first choice for Popeye Doyle, the combustible detective pursuing a heroin shipment in 1971’s “The French Connection.” According to Hackman, Robert Mitchum, Rod Taylor and New York newspaper columnist Jimmy Breslin were all ahead of him. Gene Hackman, seen here in 1973 -- after his "French Connection" Oscar. Getty Images Even after being cast, he had trouble with the role. An early scene had him punching a drug pusher, and Hackman found it difficult to do the violence. “I felt terrible, and the scene was no good. That night, I told (director) Billy Friedkin he should consider replacing me,” he told Film Comment . Friedkin didn’t, and Hackman eventually clicked. Indeed, he clicked so well, he won an Oscar for best actor. The film took home five Oscars, including best picture. Memorable performances His next film was a 180-degree turn: producer Irwin Allen’s all-star disaster epic, “The Poseidon Adventure.” Hackman played a mod priest who leads the trapped passengers of an overturned ocean liner to safety. “When I was working on it, I was kind of ashamed of myself,” he told the UK Guardian . The film was a huge box-office success, anyway. Hackman’s roles were usually pensive and dramatic, but he occasionally ventured away from his comfort zone for comedy. He was a blind hermit in a hilarious scene in Mel Brooks’ 1974 film “Young Frankenstein” and a scenery-chewing Lex Luthor in 1978’s “Superman” and its sequel. Gene Hackman and Christopher Reeve in "Superman." Moviestore/Shutterstock Years later, Hackman gave an impulsive spark to Royal Tenenbaum, the patriarch of a neurotic clan in Wes Anderson’s 2001 film “The Royal Tenenbaums.” Despite his talent, Hackman wasn’t always in great films. In interviews, he was as blunt about the successes (1981’s “Reds,” he said, was “difficult”) as the failures. “Hoosiers,” which became a classic, “passed him by,” he told GQ. “I took the film at a time that I was desperate for money. I took it for all the wrong reasons, and it turned out to be one of those films that stick around,” he said . “I never expected the film to have the kind of legs it’s had.” He was sometimes the best thing in bad films. “So many of his roles take (his reliability) for granted and do not think to test him,” wrote David Thomson in the “The New Biographical Dictionary of Film.” For his part, Hackman said, “I suppose a lot of it comes from early days when there wasn’t any work.” But when he had the material, he was a champion. He won his second Oscar for his performance as Little Bill Daggett, the violent sheriff in Clint Eastwood’s 1992 best picture winner, “Unforgiven.” (It was another role he almost turned down, he told CNN. ) “Gene Hackman gives one of his most powerful and least mannered performances, displaying an implacable strength and controlled passion that form the essential counterbalance to Eastwood’s own considerable force,” wrote Kenneth Turan in The Los Angeles Times in 1992. Gene Hackman and Willem Dafoe in 1988's "Mississippi Burning." Orion/Kobal/Shutterstock He was intimidating in 1993’s “The Firm,” amusing in 1995’s “Get Shorty” and stolid in 2000’s “The Replacements.” But with a handful of exceptions, the latter part of his career seemed to be a series of military men, villainous government officials and lawyers. His last film was inexplicable: the little-seen and poorly received 2004 comedy “Welcome to Mooseport.” At 74, he quietly retired and stuck to it. He became a man of leisure in Santa Fe, New Mexico, and turned to other arts, painting and writing. Another good role never came along. “I don’t have a project, Larry. If you have a script, I’ll read it,” he told Larry King in 2004, a few months after “Mooseport’s” release. “It’s probably all over.” For Hackman, that was OK. He never saw himself as a leading man anyway. “You’d like to (have) been fourth star in all those MGM movies?” King asked. “Yes,” replied Hackman. “I would have liked to have done that.” Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Entertainment Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Entertainment Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.