https://www.bbc.com/audio/brand/p002vsyx
BBC Audio | World Football Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Save Share World Football Original football stories and interviews from around the globe. Save Share Episodes (495 available) World Football How do Atletico Madrid bridge the gap to Real Madrid and Barcelona? World Football How do Atletico Madrid bridge the gap to Real Madrid and Barcelona? John Bennett gets the view from Spain on whether Atletico can challenge the top two 24 Apr 2025 • 7 mins Save World Football Marcus Rashford: What does his future hold? World Football Marcus Rashford: What does his future hold? Will the Manchester United forward return to Old Trafford or move on? 23 Apr 2025 • 8 mins Save World Football Can Leeds United and Burnley survive in the Premier League? World Football Can Leeds United and Burnley survive in the Premier League? The two Championship sides were promoted to England’s top-flight with two games to spare 22 Apr 2025 • 7 mins Save World Football Brentford’s Wissa and Mbuemo chase Premier League record World Football Brentford’s Wissa and Mbuemo chase Premier League record John Bennett explores the impact of Brentford pair Bryan Mbuemo and Yoane Wissa. 20 Apr 2025 • 10 mins Save World Football The Leicester City passion of a snooker world champion World Football The Leicester City passion of a snooker world champion Four-time snooker world champion Mark Selby opens up on his passion for Leicester City. 17 Apr 2025 • 12 mins Save World Football Is this Barcelona’s chance to be kings of Europe again? World Football Is this Barcelona’s chance to be kings of Europe again? Will the La Liga giants end their 10-year wait for the Champions League title? 16 Apr 2025 • 8 mins Save World Football The life, loss and legacy of Kevin Campbell World Football The life, loss and legacy of Kevin Campbell Family and former team-mates reflect on the life of the ex-Arsenal and Everton striker 15 Apr 2025 • 21 mins Save World Football Ruben Amorim’s Manchester United goalkeeping dilemma World Football Ruben Amorim’s Manchester United goalkeeping dilemma Seb Bassong discusses whether Andre Onana or Altay Bayindir will start v Lyon 15 Apr 2025 • 8 mins Save World Football Could Real Madrid Champions League exit spell the end for Ancelotti? World Football Could Real Madrid Champions League exit spell the end for Ancelotti? We get the view from Spain on the future of Real Madrid coach Carlo Ancelotti. 14 Apr 2025 • 9 mins Save World Football The shirts of Suarez, Robben & Haaland making a difference in Ukraine World Football The shirts of Suarez, Robben & Haaland making a difference in Ukraine The football shirts raising money for children's charities in Ukraine. 13 Apr 2025 • 13 mins Save ... British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.