https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.groplay.grogarden
Grow Garden : Kids Games - Apps on Google Play Games Apps Books Kids google_logo Play Games Apps Books Kids none search help_outline Sign in with Google play_apps Library & devices payment Payments & subscriptions reviews My Play activity redeem Offers Play Pass Personalization in Play settings Settings Privacy Policy • Terms of Service Games Apps Books Kids play_arrow Trailer Grow Garden : Kids Games Gro Play Digital 10K+ Downloads Rated for 3+ info EGP 92.99 Buy Share Add to wishlist play_arrow Trailer About this game arrow_forward GROW GARDEN - let your kids discover ORGANIC GARDENING. Meet Connie the Compost and her friends the Micro organisms. They live under the trees in your Grow Garden, right next to the animals, and they love old food scraps! When you feed Connie and her friends, magic things start to happen. They start producing nutritious soil that makes your crops grow faster and taste better. So after harvesting your tasty vegetables you can treat Banja the rabbit and all the other animals in the cottage. Along the way your Item Collection will also grow with cool items, good food, and badges to reward your progress. Grow Garden is the fun place to learn about organic gardening and sustainable farming. Kids get to learn and understand environmental issues in a simple and entertaining way. FEATURES: • Rich edutainment game with hundreds of possibilities • Multitouch interface, play together with your friends • Kid-friendly interface • Handcrafted scenography • No third-party advertising • Diverse group of fun characters • No in-app purchases • "Learn-as-you-play" game. No written instructions • Tips and tricks ABOUT GRO PLAY We are an independent creative studio based in Stockholm, Sweden, that offers eco-educational toys, games and apps. Gro Play is a founded by the social entrepreneur Patricia Richter, and is the proud winner of the Swedish Living Green award 2012. STAY TUNED Like us on facebook: www.facebook.com/GroPlay Instagram: http://www.instagr.am/GroPlay Twitter: http://www.twitter.com/GroPlay Visit our website: www.GroPlay.com Updated on Oct 3, 2024 Simulation Casual Single player Stylized Offline Play Pass Data safety arrow_forward Safety starts with understanding how developers collect and share your data. Data privacy and security practices may vary based on your use, region, and age. The developer provided this information and may update it over time. No data shared with third parties Learn more about how developers declare sharing This app may collect these data types App activity and App info and performance Data is encrypted in transit Data can’t be deleted Committed to follow the Play Families Policy See details What’s new * Smaller app size * Improved performance flag Flag as inappropriate App support expand_more public Website email Support email info@groplay.com shield Privacy Policy About the developer Gro Play Digital AB info@groplay.com Magnus Ladulåsgatan 39, 4tr
118 65 Stockholm
Sweden +46 79 346 28 20 More by Gro Play Digital arrow_forward The JerryMaya Detective Agency Gro Play Digital 4.4 star Grow Forest Gro Play Digital 4.0 star Beep, beep, Alfie Atkins Gro Play Digital 4.5 star Grow Planet : STEM at Home Gro Play Digital World of Alfie Atkins: Kids Gro Play Digital Showtime, Alfie Atkins Gro Play Digital Similar games arrow_forward Play ABC, Alfie Atkins - Full Gro Play Digital EGP 149.99 Teach Your Monster Eating Game Teach Your Monster Pango Land - dollhouse kids 3+ Studio Pango - Kids Fun preschool learning games EGP 169.99 Purple Pink English Papo World Alphachat by Helen Doron Helen Doron Educational Group Beep, beep, Alfie Atkins Gro Play Digital 4.5 star flag Flag as inappropriate Google Play Play Pass Play Points Gift cards Redeem Refund policy Kids & family Parent Guide Family sharing Terms of Service Privacy About Google Play Developers Google Store All prices include VAT. Egypt (English)