https://www.ksdk.com/article/news/local/illinois/illinois-teens-ran-into-burning-building-to-help-get-retirement-residents-to-safety/63-42781e5f-4834-490e-87ec-621469f70f79
Teens run into burning building, help save more than a dozen people | ksdk.com Skip Navigation Share on Facebook Share on SMS Share on Email Navigation News Back Local Politics Near Me Entertainment News Health Crime Nation World I-Team St. Louis Food News Show Me St. Louis Latest News Stories Woman falls from SUV onto roadway, struck by fire truck, dies, police say Family shocked by gruesome death of Affton woman; killed by romantic interest, police say Weather Back Forecast Maps Radar Closings & Delays 10-Day Allergy Index Hourly Weather Cams Traffic School Closings Registration Latest Weather Stories St. Louis forecast: Light showers Sunday, storms by Tuesday Severe thunderstorm chances increase next week; Weather Impact Alert Day issued for Tuesday Sports Back Cardinals Blues City SC College High School Motorsports Outdoor Locked On Podcast Network Latest Stories Arenado's walk-off home run lifts Cardinals over Brewers 6-5 after blown 5-0 lead Did Shedeur Sanders get prank called during the NFL Draft? Here's a behind-the-scenes look. Search Search: Search Right Now St. Louis, MO » 54° St. Louis, MO » Weather Closings Advertise With Us Weather Forecast Stream 5+ As Seen On TV Contact us Show Me St. Louis Contests TISL Black History Radar Making A Difference Get Our Newsletters Download our app Searching for Solutions Project 5 TV Listings Breaking News More ( ) » Illinois Teens run into burning building, help save more than a dozen people “I heard the people screaming,” Andy Goforth said.  “I didn’t even think about it.  I jumped out and ran upstairs.” To stream 5 On Your Side on your phone, you need the 5 On Your Side app. Download the 5 On Your Side app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Author: Holden Kurwicki Published: 6:55 PM CDT April 25, 2025 Updated: 6:55 PM CDT April 25, 2025 NASHVILLE, Ill. — Two teens are being called heroes after running into a burning building and getting more than a dozen people to safety. Wednesday around 10:30 p.m., teens Andy Goforth and Daven Hug were headed home when they noticed something was off at the Village Apartments retirement community. “We saw and smelled some smoke coming around and he said, 'we’ve got to go find this fire,'” Daven Hug said. “I heard the people screaming,” Andy Goforth said.  “I didn’t even think about it.  I jumped out and ran upstairs.” “My first thought was that my grandma lives in there,” Hug said.  “I’ve got to go get grandma.” They quickly called 911 only to find out the response would be delayed. “The Nashville Fire Department was on a mutual aid call when this fire broke out,” State Rep. Charlie Meier (R-109th District) said. The boys split up between the floors in the building to get people out. “A lot of them are elderly people,” Hug said.  “They have some hearing problems.  It was really hard getting people to wake up and let them know there was a fire going on.” “The scariest part was the smoke,” Andy Goforth said.  “I couldn’t see anything.  I couldn’t see a foot in front of me.  I can’t imagine that much smoke in one area.” Two people were airlifted to Barnes-Jewish Hospital with burns.  One was treated for smoke inhalation at a local hospital. 13 others were temporarily moved to a Red Cross shelter at a nearby church. “Without the great and heroic actions of Andy and Daven god only knows how tragic this could’ve been,” Rep. Meier said. However, the teens were quick to say they’re not heroes. “Everyone has said that word and it’s kind of blown my mind,” Goforth said.  “I didn’t think anyone would see it that way.” “I think anyone who would’ve been there at the time would’ve done what we did,” Hug said.  “We were just at the right place at the right time.” “God was looking over everybody that night,” Goforth said. Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out Jobs Terms of Service Privacy Policy Ad Choices EEO Public File Report FCC Online Public Inspection File Closed Caption Procedures Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information © 2025 KSDK-TV. All Rights Reserved.