https://link.chtbl.com/SgXV7TyO
The Axe Files with David Axelrod | Listen to Podcasts On Demand Free | TuneIn TuneIn Logo TuneIn Logo Home Search Radio Recents Music Sports News & Talk Podcasts By Location By Language Sign In Sign Up Download App The Axe Files with David Axelrod CNN David Axelrod, the founder and director of the University of Chicago Institute of Politics, and CNN bring you The Axe Files, a series of revealing interviews with key figures in the political world. Go beyond the soundbites and get to know some of the most interesting players in politics. Ask host to enable sharing for playback control Play Button More Information Location: United States Genres: News & Politics Podcasts Politics World News Networks: CNN CNN Flagship Description: David Axelrod, the founder and director of the University of Chicago Institute of Politics, and CNN bring you The Axe Files, a series of revealing interviews with key figures in the political world. Go beyond the soundbites and get to know some of the most interesting players in politics. Twitter: @davidaxelrod Language: English Website: https://soundcloud.com/the-axe-files Episodes Ask host to enable sharing for playback control Ep. 605 — Ambassador Rahm Emanuel 12/19/2024 More This week marks a significant moment for The Axe Files: our final episode. We hope you have found these conversations to be as eye-opening and inspiring as we have, and we’ll miss sharing stories with you each week. For the final episode, David talked with his friend, US Ambassador to Japan Rahm Emanuel, who is finishing up his time abroad. Known for his brash, direct demeanor, some questioned his place as a diplomat in a country known for order and politeness. However, Amb. Emanuel had no problem putting his own spin on the job and grew to love Japan, as well. He joined David to talk about his time in Japan, China and the importance of America’s relationships in the Indo-Pacific region; his thought on the situation in the Middle East; where the 2024 presidential election lands in history; and what comes next once he returns home. Learn more about your ad choices. Visit podcastchoices.com/adchoices Duration: 01:07:08 Ask host to enable sharing for playback control Ep. 604 — Scott Jennings 12/12/2024 More Scott Jennings is well known as a conservative firebrand on CNN. From working for George W. Bush to being mentioned as a possible press secretary for Donald Trump, Scott has a deep background in Republican politics, yet he considers himself a journalist at heart. Scott joined David to talk about his early days in radio news, his childhood in rural Kentucky, his formative relationship with Sen. Mitch McConnell, his role at CNN and what he sees as the need for conservative voices in mainstream media, and the friendship Scott and David share. Learn more about your ad choices. Visit podcastchoices.com/adchoices Duration: 01:07:19 Ask host to enable sharing for playback control Ep. 603 — Rep. Marie Gluesenkamp Perez 12/5/2024 More Democratic Rep. Marie Gluesenkamp Perez has made waves—and won elections—by questioning who gets to be an expert on the needs of everyday Americans. She grew up in Texas and attended Reed College before settling in rural Washington and opening an auto body shop with her husband. Rep. Gluesenkamp Perez joined David to talk about her upbringing as the homeschooled daughter of conservative Evangelical parents, her disdain for “staffer bros” with limited lived experience, the value of being immersed in her community, and what Democrats can learn about the importance of respect in winning—and keeping—voters. Learn more about your ad choices. Visit podcastchoices.com/adchoices Duration: 00:54:12 Ask host to enable sharing for playback control The Best of The Axe Files: Jon Meacham 11/28/2024 More This Thanksgiving, we’re revisiting a conversation with historian and writer Jon Meacham on his book, “And There Was Light: Abraham Lincoln and the American Struggle.” The book dives deep into Lincoln and the why behind the actions of America’s 16th president, from personal to political. Jon joined David to talk about Lincoln’s anti-slavery roots, what Lincoln can teach us about the current political moment, the moral decisions we face as a country, and what qualities make a great American president. Learn more about your ad choices. Visit podcastchoices.com/adchoices Duration: 01:04:13 Ask host to enable sharing for playback control Ep. 602 — Chris LaCivita 11/21/2024 More Chris LaCivita, GOP campaign pro and mastermind behind some of the party’s most ruthless yet effective political ads, says he focuses on a simple mandate—getting his boss elected. In the weeks following his successful stint as co-manager of Donald Trump’s 2024 campaign, the former Marine joined David to talk about his upbringing in the Pittsburgh area; how his military experience informs his campaign work; what made Trump’s 2024 campaign different from 2016 and 2020; and his take on the impact of trans rights, abortion, and Joe Biden on the 2024 presidential race. Learn more about your ad choices. Visit podcastchoices.com/adchoices Duration: 01:05:02 Ask host to enable sharing for playback control Ep. 601 — John Anzalone 11/14/2024 More Democratic pollster John Anzalone wants voters to know that pollsters are not prognosticators. Instead, they use their findings to help craft strategy and messaging, and John has some advice for the Democratic Party after the 2024 election. He joined David to talk about the over saturation of lower quality polling, the need for Democrats to retool their economic message and focus on the American Dream, what hurt Vice President Kamala Harris’ presidential campaign, and what Democrats can learn from their deep bench of future leaders. Learn more about your ad choices. Visit podcastchoices.com/adchoices Duration: 01:00:29 Ask host to enable sharing for playback control The Axe Files: The 600th Episode 10/31/2024 More This week, The Axe Files reaches a milestone: 600 episodes. For this anniversary show, CNN’s Anderson Cooper sat down with David to talk about the origins of The Axe Files, some of the most memorable moments from the podcast, what David has learned about people and politics through the show, and what David will be watching for on election night. Learn more about your ad choices. Visit podcastchoices.com/adchoices Duration: 01:09:39 Ask host to enable sharing for playback control Ep. 599 — Charlamagne tha God 10/24/2024 More Charlamagne tha God—born Lenard McKelvey—got his start in radio by chance, but once he started, he was hooked. He now co-hosts The Breakfast Club, a nationally syndicated morning show reaching millions of listeners each month. He talked to David about growing up in a small town in South Carolina, addressing his mental health and how it changed his relationship to his father, working his way up in radio to his current role and what makes The Breakfast Club work, and his thinking on the 2024 presidential election and his frustration with the narrative around Black voters. Learn more about your ad choices. Visit podcastchoices.com/adchoices Duration: 01:03:54 Ask host to enable sharing for playback control Ep. 598 — John King 10/17/2024 More CNN’s John King loves being an anchor, but looking back on the past few presidential elections, he felt he was missing something from inside his Washington, D.C. bubble. So, he decided to get back on the road, traveling from state to state and talking to people on the ground in the lead up to the 2024 election with his All Over the Map project. John joined David to talk about how Donald Trump is using immigration to try to build support in the suburbs, if abortion on the ballot will lead to ticket splitting, Washington’s disconnect from the rest of the country, and where the 2024 election stands today. (For more from All Over the Map, click here.) Learn more about your ad choices. Visit podcastchoices.com/adchoices Duration: 01:05:46 Ask host to enable sharing for playback control Ep. 597 — Ilana Dayan 10/10/2024 More Ilana Dayan, a prominent Israeli journalist, spoke with David last fall, just days after the October 7 massacre in Israel perpetrated by Hamas. One year later, David checked in with Ilana to talk about Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s staying power, reporting on Gaza, recognizing the US’s political calculations in its dealings with Israel, the need for both war and diplomacy in the Middle East, and what happens next between Israel and Iran. Learn more about your ad choices. Visit podcastchoices.com/adchoices Duration: 01:03:37 Ask host to enable sharing for playback control Ep. 596 — Secretary Janet Yellen 10/3/2024 More Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen has been thinking about the economy since she was a young girl in the working-class neighborhood of Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, keenly attuned to how broader economic trends impacted the employment of her neighbors. Once she took her first economics class in college, she was hooked. She has since spent her career moving between academic and government roles, including many years at the Federal Reserve. Secretary Yellen joined David to talk about the barriers women face in finance, the economic implications of immigration, China and tariffs, and why government intervention in the financial system is necessary. Learn more about your ad choices. Visit podcastchoices.com/adchoices Duration: 01:04:55 Ask host to enable sharing for playback control Ep. 595 — Kasie Hunt 9/26/2024 More As a child, journalist Kasie Hunt eagerly awaited the arrival of “Time” magazine each week. She loved current events, which eventually piqued her interest in national security and journalism. She joined David to talk about growing up in a post-war period and watching 9/11 puncture that feeling of safety, covering Jan. 6 as a Capitol Hill reporter, what advice she would give a young campaign journalist, starting a new job at CNN while learning she had a brain tumor, and what she learned from that life-altering experience. Learn more about your ad choices. Visit podcastchoices.com/adchoices Duration: 01:08:58 Ask host to enable sharing for playback control Ep. 594 — Amb. Roger Carstens 9/19/2024 More At 11 years old, Roger Carstens, already an avid news consumer, was struck by stories of genocide in Cambodia. He resolved that when he grew up, he would work to alleviate human suffering. That mission took him to the Army and jobs in the non-profit sector and government, including his current role as the Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs. In this job, Amb. Carstens works tirelessly to bring home Americans wrongfully detained across the globe. He talked with David about what keeps him up at night, the importance of entering negotiations with humility, his journey with spirituality, and his focus on the families of the hostages he works to free. Learn more about your ad choices. Visit podcastchoices.com/adchoices Duration: 01:06:59 Ask host to enable sharing for playback control Ep. 593 — DeMar DeRozan 9/12/2024 More DeMar DeRozan is a six-time NBA All Star and an Olympic gold medalist. But perhaps the defining legacy of his career will be his decision to speak out about his struggles with depression and mental health. He joined David to talk about growing up in Compton, California, surrounded by both gang violence and a strong, loving family; basketball as an escape; his drive to excel; the importance of speaking out about mental health; and his new book, “Above the Noise: My Story of Chasing Calm.” Learn more about your ad choices. Visit podcastchoices.com/adchoices Duration: 01:03:04 Ask host to enable sharing for playback control The Axe Files presents The Assignment with Audie Cornish 9/5/2024 More Kamala Harris has “Freedom.” Donald Trump has “God Bless the USA” (and a lot of cease-and-desist letters). What makes for a good campaign song? And why do we respond so viscerally to the ones that work? Audie talks with DJ Cassidy, who DJ'd the DNC Roll Call. And Dana Gorzelany-Mostak, who studies the use of music in political campaigns. Learn more about your ad choices. Visit podcastchoices.com/adchoices Duration: 00:32:40 Ask host to enable sharing for playback control Ep. 592 — Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi 8/29/2024 More Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi has joined David on The Axe Files many times to talk about her life, policy, and politics. With the recent release of her book, “The Art of Power,” the two again met to talk at the University Club of Chicago during the Democratic National Convention. Although they spoke before an audience, it sounded more like a conversation between Pelosi and a roomful of friends as she reflected on the high points of her career, Joe Biden exiting the presidential race, and the importance of protecting the Constitution on Election Day. Learn more about your ad choices. Visit podcastchoices.com/adchoices Duration: 01:06:47 Ask host to enable sharing for playback control Best of The Axe Files: Vice President Kamala Harris 8/22/2024 More As Vice President Kamala Harris prepares to take the stage for the final night of the 2024 Democratic National Convention as the Democratic presidential nominee, we are re-airing a conversation David had with Harris back in 2017. At the time, she was the new senator from California. They sat down to talk about the prospects for criminal justice reform legislation in Congress, why she believes Supreme Court nominees must be approved with 60 votes, her stance on immigration, and much more. Learn more about your ad choices. Visit podcastchoices.com/adchoices Duration: 01:07:11 Ask host to enable sharing for playback control Ep. 591 — Ezra Klein 8/15/2024 More Journalist Ezra Klein has been covering politics for two decades, first as a blogger from his undergrad dorm room and now as an Opinion columnist for The New York Times. He joined David to talk about the current political moment, the role of policy in elections, how Vice President Kamala Harris has stolen the spotlight from former President Donald Trump, why the normal political metaphors don’t fit the 2024 presidential race, and why he thinks Gov. Tim Walz was the bold pick to join Harris on the Democratic ticket. Learn more about your ad choices. Visit podcastchoices.com/adchoices Duration: 01:07:30 Ask host to enable sharing for playback control Ep. 590 — Don Rose 8/8/2024 More Much has been said about perceived parallels between this year’s Democratic National Convention in Chicago and the 1968 convention, hallmarked by a violent response to anti-Vietnam War protestors and an incumbent who announced he would not seek reelection. Few are as qualified to speak on those comparison as Don Rose, a Chicago journalist, political strategist, and activist who was a leader in organizing the ’68 protests. He joined David to talk about 1968 and today, how protests against the war in Gaza could affect the DNC, how focusing on abortion issues may have helped Vice President Kamala Harris’ rise, and his surprise—and delight—at her selection of Gov. Tim Walz as her running mate. Learn more about your ad choices. Visit podcastchoices.com/adchoices Duration: 00:55:38 Ask host to enable sharing for playback control Ep. 589 — Audie Cornish 8/1/2024 More As a longtime reporter and observer of American politics and culture, Audie Cornish spends her days chronicling and analyzing history as it’s happening. This week, Audie joined David to talk about her own history: growing up in the “messy follow-up of integration” in Boston schools, being raised by immigrant parents, and unexpectedly finding herself on the path to journalism. Audie and David also discussed the state of American politics, how Vice President Kamala Harris is meeting the moment as a presidential candidate, and Audie's CNN podcast, “The Assignment.” Learn more about your ad choices. Visit podcastchoices.com/adchoices Duration: 01:06:42 See More Sports, music, news, audiobooks, and podcasts. Hear the audio that matters most to you. Listen Now Sports Music News & Talk Podcasts Audiobooks More About Us Contact Us Careers Press Product Support Devices Communities Brands Broadcasters Podcasters © 2025 TuneIn, Inc. All rights reserved Privacy Terms Sitemap Your Privacy Choices Instagram Twitter LinkedIn