https://edition.cnn.com/2025/04/12/travel/travel-news-crystal-cabin-award-2025/index.html
Airplane cabin designs that could change the way we fly | CNN CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Destinations Food & Drink News Stay Video More Destinations Food & Drink News Stay Video Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español Destinations Food & Drink News Stay Video Follow CNN Travel World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Ad Feedback Airplane cabin designs that could change the way we fly By Maureen O'Hare , CNN 4 minute read Published
          6:30 AM EDT, Sat April 12, 2025 Link Copied! Follow: Aviation news See your latest updates Winner — Passenger Comfort: Cathay Pacific’s Aria Suite was recognized by the Crystal Cabin Awards 2025 for its "ground-breaking IFEC system that unifies in-flight entertainment and cabin environment control." Cathay Pacific/JPA Design/Reaktor/Crystal Cabin Awards Winner — IFEC and Digital Services: Safran Cabin has come up with a smart solution for interior cabin maintenance. It should help airlines "improve reliability, reduce downtime, and deliver a smoother passenger experience," says Crystal Cabin Awards. Safran Cabin/Crystal Cabin Awards Winner — Sustainable Cabin: Diehl Aviation’s “ECO Bin” is a fully recyclable overhead storage bin. Diehl Aviation/Crystal Cabin Awards Winner — Cabin Technologies: Collins Aerospace’s “galley.ai” system combines AI and sensor technology to optimize onboard meal service. Collins Aerospace/Crystal Cabin Awards Winner — Accessibility: Diehl Aviation’s “Space³” smart, accessible cabin design features wide doors, foldable sinks and a unique sliding mat system. Dielhl Aviation/Crystal Cabin Awards Winner — Judges’ Choice: Airline Innovation: Cathay Pacific’s “Gallery in the Skies” showcases work by artists with deep ties to Hong Kong in a gallery-like experience on board the plane. Cathay Pacific/Crystal Cabin Awards Winner — University: The “Ultra-lightweight Display System,” designed by a team from Tongji University in collaboration with Boeing, uses compact projectors and gesture recognition to revolutionize in-flight entertainment. Tongji University/Boeing/Crystal Cabin Awards Crystal Cabin Awards 2025 Prev Next Editor’s note: Sign up for Unlocking the World, CNN Travel’s weekly newsletter . Get news about destinations, plus the latest in aviation, food and drink, and where to stay. CNN — In travel news this week: award-winning aircraft interior designs and the world’s best airports for 2025. Plus, what it’s like to live in a US town completely surrounded by Canada. Award-winning design An in-flight entertainment system that can project content on tray tables, windows or wherever passengers want to watch. A fully recyclable overhead storage bin that could advance sustainable travel. An in-seat interface that allows you to check lavatory availability without getting up. These are some of the seven innovative airplane interior concepts to have been honored by the Crystal Cabin Awards this week in Hamburg at the Aircraft Interiors Expo 2025. The entries range from ready-to-launch, airline-backed designs, to experimental and as-yet-unrealized projects. Hong Kong’s Cathay Pacific and Germany’s Diehl Aviation were both double winners, with Diehl impressing with its smart design for an accessible airplane lavatory with wide doors and foldable sinks. See the full list here. Also getting their flowers this week were the aviation hubs honored in the Skytrax World Airport Awards 2025 . Singapore Changi, renowned for its indoor waterfall, dinosaur theme park, butterfly garden and copious other delights, won for the 13th time. Paris Charles de Gaulle was named Best Airport in Europe, Vancouver International was Best in North America and Cape Town was Best in Africa. Passports and politics The peninsula community of Point Roberts, Washington. Jennifer Gauthier/Reuters Some US citizens are worried about traveling abroad during the Trump administration. “It feels terrifying,” said one travel blogger who is afraid of a hostile reception internationally. The US trade war and anti-Europe rhetoric have some Europeans choosing to skip US travel . “It’s like our friend started a fist fight with us,” one Copenhagen resident told CNN. For the people of Point Roberts, a 4.9-square-mile peninsula in Washington state that belongs to the US but is only accessible by land through Canada, growing anti-American sentiment is a concern. Here’s what it’s like to live there . Meanwhile, many Americans planning to travel domestically are anxious and confused about the REAL ID deadline looming on May 7. Here’s what you need to know in order to meet the new identification standards for US air travel. Finally, a Nigerian woman who was attempting to break the world record for the fastest time to visit every continent was thwarted in her mission by flight delays and visa issues. She succeeded in her other goal, however, which she says was to highlight “passport privilege.” She says there were “access and options” denied her on her journey and extra checks she faced because of her “low-mobility” passport. Tech and travel Xiaohongshu , China’s answer to Instagram, is transforming the travel industry for younger adventurers. Locations that offer unique photo ops, such as basketball courts with great views of the Hong Kong skyline or paintwork on a wall in Seoul, have become huge tourist draws because of the app. On the opposite end of the scale, an American game streamer and his YouTuber buddy are ditching the smartphones that are the staple of their generation and attempting to cross Japan by motorbike without so much as a guidebook. They’re relying on basic Japanese and asking directions from locals. For an easier way to do old-school travel, our partners at CNN Underscored, a product reviews and recommendations guide owned by CNN, have this round-up of the best vintage-inspired luggage and accessories . Mega-huge, mega-expensive Video Ad Feedback CNN got a sneak peek at one of the biggest and most expensive theme parks ever built 02:54 - Source: CNN CNN got a sneak peek at one of the biggest and most expensive theme parks ever built 02:54 Florida’s Universal Orlando Resort will open its third and newest theme park, Epic Universal, on May 22 and it’s one of the largest, most expensive theme parks ever made. CNN got a sneak peek inside the first major theme park to open in the state in 26 years. In case you missed it Jonestown, Guyana, was the site of an infamous 1970s mass murder and suicide. CNN was among the first visitors to be taken there by tour guides. A 76-year-woman and her parrot, Plucky, were denied boarding on a Frontier Airlines flight. Here’s how Plucky got unlucky . She couldn’t stop thinking about the man she’d glimpsed when her ship visited a remote island. Then he wrote her a letter . Passover begins April 12 and the Thai New Year begins April 13. Here’s what you need to know about the Passover Seder meal and Songkran water celebrations . Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Travel Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.