https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c98gmrgd66zo
Man's 220-mile cycle for Liverpool charity that saved his life Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Man's mammoth ride for charity that saved his life 11 hours ago Share Save Laura O'Neill BBC News, Liverpool Share Save Connor Doyle Connor represented James' Place at the Liverpool half marathon in March A man who has said his life was saved by a suicide prevention centre is undertaking a 220-mile bike ride to raise funds for the charity. Connor Doyle, from Liverpool, said he had already made an attempt on his life when he was put in touch with the people at James' Place, a charity that offers free therapy to men in suicidal crisis The charity was founded by the family of 21-year-old student James Wentworth-Stanley who took his own life in 2006. "I was in a really dark place, I didn't know where to turn or who to speak to," Mr Doyle said, speaking of his own experience. 'Easy and safe' "I'm the last person you would think could go through something like that, I'm always smiling. "When it happened everyone said the same thing, if it can happen to me it can happen to anyone." The 32-year-old said he was cycling from one of the charity's centres in Newcastle to the centre in Liverpool to raise funds for the charity and make people aware of the services it offers. "They were unbelievable the staff. I had six or seven sessions and it wasn't like going into a hospital it's more warm and comfortable, it felt easy and safe to speak. "I always said I wanted to raise money and make other people aware of the service they offer because I wasn't aware of them until it was nearly too late. "Since I spoke openly the amount of people who got in touch to say they're going through something similar is scary, it opens your eyes." Connor Doyle Connor Doyle (right) says no one taken part in the challenge has ever ridden a road bike before He will be making the 220-mile trip on 6 June with his brother-in-law, a group of five friends and his dad, who will be driving alongside them. "We've hired a van just in case of any injuries so my dad is the designated driver because he wanted to get involved," he said. "None of us have ever ridden a road bike but they all know how much the cause means to me. "I appreciate them putting the work in and doing it I'm sure they could imagine better ways to spend their weekend." Last year, the group completed the Three Peaks challenge and raised more than £2,000 for the charity. "We're so proud of Connor and all the amazing things he has achieved since leaving James' Place," Andy Noon, head of centre for James' Place Liverpool said. "He is proof that you can overcome a suicidal crisis with the right help and thrive in the future." Suicide is the single leading cause of death for men under 35 . James' Place has centres in Liverpool, London and Newcastle, with a fourth centre in Birmingham opening by early 2026. If you or someone you know are having feelings of despair or emotionally distressed, you can access advice and support here . Listen to the best of BBC Radio Merseyside on Sounds and follow BBC Merseyside on Facebook , X , and Instagram . You can also send story ideas via Whatsapp to 0808 100 2230. More on this story Male suicide prevention centre opens third branch Related internet links James' Place Suicide prevention Newcastle upon Tyne Liverpool Related Benches unveiled to honour footballer 23 hrs ago Essex Three dads take on walking challenge for helpline 18 Apr 2025 England Suicide prevention tour documentary to premiere 17 Apr 2025 South Yorkshire More 2 hrs ago 'There will be tears' say expectant Liverpool fans Anticipation builds at Anfield as fans hope to celebrate the team's Premier League victory. 2 hrs ago Liverpool 3 hrs ago Flood-prevent system to be built in city park A new drainage system will be built in Newcastle's Exhibition Park to help stop further flooding. 3 hrs ago Tyne 8 hrs ago Trauma survivors share stories for charity appeal Day One Trauma helps victims rebuild their lives after suffering catastrophic injuries. 8 hrs ago 11 hrs ago The GP poisoner 'you wouldn't expect to happen' Reporter Peter Harris describes the case of GP Thomas Kwan in Strange But True Crime on BBC Sounds. 11 hrs ago England 18 hrs ago 'No-one expected this' - how Slot took Liverpool to brink of title As Liverpool stand on the brink of the Premier League title, BBC Sport explores the impact made by Arne Slot this season. 18 hrs ago Liverpool British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.