https://www.bbc.com/travel/article/20240327-the-centuries-old-baba-recipe-made-with-96-egg-yolks
The centuries-old baba recipe made with 96 egg yolks Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters The centuries-old baba recipe made with 96 egg yolks 8 days ago Share Save Olga Mecking Share Save Getty Images The baba is often served at Easter in Poland (Credit: Getty Images) The baba is often served at Easter in Poland, with the most extraordinary version – the muslin baba – made from a rich dough of flour, yeast, butter and quite a lot of egg yolks. Depending on where it's baked, the baba or babka takes on many different forms. In the US, it's a braided brioche-like bread that often has chocolate, nuts or other ingredients mixed in. Europeans might be more familiar with baba au rhum , a desert popular in France and Italy that is soaked in liqueur and served in individual portions. But in Poland, the word "baba" can refer to a variety of baked goods. Some are made in Bundt pans, while others are loaf shaped. Some are more bread-like and use yeast while others more closely resemble pound cake, like the lemon baba I made for my son's birthday. And some, like the potato babka so popular in Poland's Podlasie region, are savoury instead of sweet. [jump to recipe] The typical yeasted baba is often served at Easter and added to the Easter basket brought to church to be blessed, with the most extraordinary version being the muslin baba named for muslin cloth because of its lightness. It's made from a rich dough that contains flour, butter, yeast and a lot of egg yolks – 96 of them for every kilogram of flour. One food website says to "take a deep breath", as the home version of the muslin baba recipe calls for just 250g of flour, so you will only need 24 egg yolks. By contrast, the Easter baba recipe I usually make contains six egg yolks for 500g of flour (or 12 egg yolks per kilogram), and I already consider that to be a lot. World's Table BBC.com's World's Table "smashes the kitchen ceiling" by changing the way the world thinks about food, through the past, present and future. The original recipe for muslin baba is often credited to the 19th-Century food writer and journalist Lucyna Ćwierczakiewiczowa, an extremely popular and successful cookbook writer at the time. I came across the recipe in two other cookbooks: Jak Gotować (How to Cook) by Maria Disslowa, first published in 1931, and then again in Old Polish Traditions in the Kitchen and at the Table (published in 1979) by Maria Lemnis and Henryk Vitry, both pseudonyms of Polish musicologist Tadeusz Żakiej, which provides fascinating insights into the life and traditions of pre-war Poland. "The cook, the lady of the house and all the women locked themselves up in the kitchen," Żakiej writes. "They sieved the whitest of flours, mixed hundreds of egg yolks with sugar in clay bowls, dissolved saffron in vodka." This is not the easiest of recipes. It requires long mixing and rising times and keeping an eye on the oven during baking to prevent burning (not to mention having to crack so many eggs). In other words, making baba was serious business. Some say that the name "baba" (the word for "woman" in Polish) referred to the fact that the dough was finnicky and moody, "just like a woman's temperament". And men weren't allowed into the kitchen during baking as it was thought their presence could lead to a failed, undercooked cake. While the dough was rising, it would be covered in a linen tablecloth and doors and windows were sealed to prevent drafts. After baking, the baba rested on cushions, and because it was thought to be so sensitive until it fully cooled, everyone would whisper because it was believed loud noises would cause it to collapse. Sometimes, after taking the baba out of the oven, the kitchen would be filled with sobbing: "A burned or collapsed baba was a terrible faux pas," Żakiej writes. But one question remains, why the extreme amount of egg yolks? Lukullus Warsaw-based Lukullus bakery sells the 96-egg yolk baba (Credit: Lukullus) "Egg yolks contain lecithin, which acts as natural leavening agent," says Jacek Malarski, the co-founder of Lukullus , a Warsaw-based bakery that sells the 96-egg yolk baba (or as they call it, Baba 96). "Adding a large amount of yolks results in a tender and fluffy texture, and adding an extreme amount of egg yolks results in an extremely fluffy texture, like a cloud." Adding an extreme amount of egg yolks results in an extremely fluffy texture, like a cloud – Jacek Malarski Because of their high fat content and emulsifying properties, the egg yolks also make the baba last for longer without having to add any preservatives and give the finished product a beautiful golden-yellow colour. In the past, serving such a rich pastry was a status symbol. "Fat was more expensive than even the most expensive of meats," says Jarosław Dumanowski, a food historian at the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń. The recipe also calls for 400g of butter for every kilogram of flour, which acts as carrier for the vanilla flavour. Some households even added saffron, one of the most expensive spices. "These were exotic things from far away so that rich people could distinguish themselves from the rest," Dumanowski says. More like this: • Poland's famous gingerbread from Torun • The dumpling that comforts Poland • Bebinca: a multi-layered egg yolk cake When Malarski and his partner, Albert Judycki, decided to offer a baba at Lukullus bakery, they tested several dozens of versions, both old and modern, before deciding on a clear winner: the muslin baba. "The muslin baba was beyond compare. It melted in your mouth and remained fresh for longest," Malarski says. They use bourbon vanilla from Madagascar and cover the Baba 96 in homemade lemon glaze. The muslin baba has been making a regular appearance at Lukullus at Easter ever since. When I ask Malarski about the popularity of this particular baba despite it being so rich and labour-intensive, he replied: "It's the best. If someone tries it, they never want to go back. They miss it too much." Getty Images The Easter baba is often decorated with lemon glaze and candied orange peel (Credit: Getty Images) Muslin baba recipe Adapted from Old Polish Traditions in the Kitchen and at the Table Ingredients 24 egg yolks* 300g sugar, setting aside 1 tsp ½ cup lukewarm milk 60g fresh yeast (or substitute 21g of instant yeast instead)** 250g flour, setting aside 1 tsp of flour 1 vanilla bean, seeds scraped out (or substitute 1 tsp vanilla extract) 100g butter, melted, plus more for the Bundt pan lemon glaze (optional) candied orange or lemon peel (optional, for decoration) Method Step 1 In a heated bain-marie, beat the egg yolks and sugar (what remains after separating out 1 tsp) until white and fluffy. The original recipe calls for half an hour by hand with a whisk but with an electric mixer, 10 minutes should be enough. Set aside to cool. Step 2 Heat up the milk until lukewarm and add the yeast, 1 tsp sugar and 1 tsp flour. Let rest until bubbly, around 5 minutes. Step 3 Add this mixture, with the remaining flour and vanilla bean seeds or vanilla extract to the egg yolks and sugar and beat for another 10 minutes. Step 4 Add the melted (but not hot) butter, beat for another 10 minutes, then leave the dough to rest in a warm place until doubled in size. The dough will be loose, more like a cake batter than yeast dough. (You won't be able to knead it, not by hand and not with the dough hook. Even the stretch-and-fold technique, typically used when handling wetter doughs, will fail here.) Step 5 When it has doubled in size, carefully transfer it to a buttered 4-liter-sized Bundt pan. Step 6 Allow it to rest in a warm spot until the dough has risen out of the form. In the meantime, preheat the oven to 170C/340F. Step 7 Carefully transfer the baba to the hot oven and bake for 35-40 minutes but keep a good eye on it as the high amount of egg yolk and sugar may cause it to burn easily. A toothpick inserted into the baba should come out clean. Allow to cool. Remove from the pan, then decorate with lemon glaze (a mix of lemon juice and powdered sugar to taste), or candied orange peel if you wish. Notes * If 24 yolks seems excessive to you, you can halve the recipe and make a smaller baba. ** Some people online have suggested decreasing the amount of yeast to 45g. This story was originally published in 2024. -- If you liked this story, sign up for The Essential List newsletter – a handpicked selection of features, videos and can't-miss news, delivered to your inbox twice a week. For more Travel stories from the BBC, follow us on Facebook , X and Instagram . Features Food & Drink Recipe Watch Would you eat a meal dreamed up by a computer? AI v The Mind: We explore the world of food and ask if human expertise is the only way to deliver great flavour. 23 Aug 2024 Innovation Turkey's wild and rugged Black Sea region Food writer Nick Kwek finds out how the wild landscape of Turkey's Black Sea region influences local cuisine. 1 Aug 2024 Food & Drink The blunder that changed chickens forever How this one simple mistake gave birth to the 50-billion-dollar US chicken industry. 25 Mar 2024 Food & Drink The hunt for the world's most expensive fungus Reel takes you to Italy to explore how the world's rarest and most expensive ingredient ends up on our tables. 4 Jan 2024 Food & Drink What food and drink is good for your memory? What we eat, it turns out, can have an impact on how well our memory works. 2 Jan 2024 Food & Drink How safe is frozen fruit? A huge recall of frozen fruits is currently happening across the US due to contamination fears. 21 Dec 2023 Food & Drink The world's oldest drinkable champagne How the discovery of the world's oldest drinkable champagne is inspiring new green solutions. 17 Oct 2023 Food & Drink The harmful legacy of poor nutrition What we eat, or don’t eat, can have a huge impact on us and the generations after us. 28 Feb 2023 Food & Drink The truth behind your favourite flavours The psychology and biology of flavour preference is some of the most fascinating science out there. 2 Feb 2023 Food & Drink Japan: Creating the first wagyu beef in a lab We meet the scientists creating wagyu beaf, a Japanese delicacy with a distinctive texture, from cells. 16 Jan 2023 Food & Drink How a vegan diet can affect your brain Can changing to a vegan diet impact the health of your brain? 4 Jan 2023 Food & Drink The fight to feed humanity A look at how the world's farmers responding to some of the greatest threats to global food security. 8 Nov 2022 Food & Drink The surprising role chocolate played for ancient humans We discover why the use of chocolate is older than we think, and the role it played for ancient humans. 1 Nov 2022 Food & Drink How beetroot can enhance your performance In the past decade, new evidence has suggested that nitrates in beetroots can enhance athletic performance. 24 Oct 2022 Food & Drink The truth about drinking raw milk The debate for and against pasteurisation across industries and seas is a passionate one. 3 Oct 2022 Food & Drink The Russian food obsession inspired by the US What thick, tangy, creamy white sauce links Stalin, French haute cuisine and American mass industrialisation? 30 Aug 2022 Food & Drink Why is cod so popular in Portugal? From kings to dictators, Portugal’s leaders have always used cod as a political tool. 11 Aug 2022 Food & Drink How sushi took over the world Thinly sliced raw fish on plain white rice. How did this Japanese staple become a global sensation? 20 Jun 2022 Food & Drink The truth about supplements and who should be taking them By 2025 sales of vitamins and supplements are expected to reach an estimated 700 million USD - but do they work? 18 May 2022 Food & Drink Why we should treat food like medicine More people than ever are expected to suffer from diet-related illnesses. 16 Mar 2022 Food & Drink More 3 days ago The eight Asian sauces to keep in your pantry From Korea's doenjang and gochujang to Hong Kong's XO sauce and East Asia's fish sauce, Asian cuisines provide hundreds of ways to flavour and season dishes. 3 days ago Travel 18 Apr 2025 A rare taste only found in the US South In a quiet corner of North Carolina, bees produce a violet-hued honey so rare and unpredictable that even experts can't explain it – and that's what makes it magical. 18 Apr 2025 Travel 14 Apr 2025 Eating at the biggest water fight in the world The sweltering heat during Buddhist New Year calls for Thailand's cooling khao chae, a fragrant and refreshing bowl of rice delicately scented with flowers. 14 Apr 2025 Travel 11 Apr 2025 Britain's new foodie town with six Michelin stars Home to three Michelin-starred restaurants and a royal gingerbread legacy, the unassuming Lancashire town of Ormskirk is fast becoming the UK's most delicious destination. 11 Apr 2025 Travel 28 Mar 2025 Ottolenghi: Food is how we connect The famed chef and author tells the BBC's Katty Kay that it was finding academia too “esoteric” that led him to seek out a simpler path: to help the world simplify its food. 28 Mar 2025 Travel British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.