https://www.cnn.com/2025/03/23/politics/white-house-easter-egg-roll-corporate-sponsorships/index.html
‘This is not your grandmother’s Easter Egg Roll’: White House seeks corporate sponsorships for Easter event | CNN Politics CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections More SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Watch Listen Live TV Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Follow CNN Politics World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Ad Feedback ‘This is not your grandmother’s Easter Egg Roll’: White House seeks corporate sponsorships for Easter event By Betsy Klein , CNN 6 minute read Updated
          3:25 PM EDT, Sun March 23, 2025 Link Copied! Follow: Donald Trump See your latest updates Video Ad Feedback ‘Shock and concern’: Klein describes reactions to Trump WH sponsorships 02:02 - Source: CNN ‘Shock and concern’: Klein describes reactions to Trump WH sponsorships 02:02 Politics of the Day 22 videos Video Ad Feedback ‘Shock and concern’: Klein describes reactions to Trump WH sponsorships 02:02 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Ex-prosecutor says arrested judge’s fate could come down to this 01:21 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Reporter describes heated argument between Musk and Bessent at White House 01:21 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback ‘The issue of immigration is a matter of humanity’: Mexican citizens react to US anti-immigration commercials 01:32 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback ‘Trump chickened out’: Chinese social media mocks Trump on trade 05:12 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Bolton on Trump: ‘His favorite is not Russia; his favorite is Vladimir Putin’ 02:07 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Why Trump’s potential U-turn could give China the upper hand 01:20 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Pamela Brown presses State Department spokesperson about Rubio's absence from Ukraine peace talks 15:00 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Treasury secretary: China needs to change 01:17 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Hear retired admiral's advice for Hegseth amid Signal chat controversies 02:34 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Hegseth defends himself on Fox & Friends against Signal chat claims 01:05 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback 'Proved himself to be a lightweight': Bolton reacts to Hegseth on Signal chats 01:09 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Hear what Musk told Tesla investors about his DOGE role going forward 01:36 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Jennings and Garcia-Navarro react to Goldman Sachs CEO’s remarks about ‘uncertainty’ in policy 03:32 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Crowd roars over question about what oversights Byron Donalds would impose on Elon Musk and DOGE 02:57 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Jake Tapper breaks down the significance of '60 Minutes' executive producer's resignation 07:26 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Scott Jennings says White House will ‘stick with Hegseth’ for now 03:09 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Harry Enten breaks down how Americans feel about judicial review of Trump’s policies 02:54 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Bill Clinton shares story about Secret Service detail who was killed in Oklahoma City bombing 00:53 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Retired colonel reacts to reports Hegseth shared detailed military plans in second Signal chat 03:23 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback Hear from protesters rallying against Trump across the US 00:51 Now playing - Source: CNN Video Ad Feedback GOP strategist on IRS acting chief's departure: 'Trump chose his Cabinet members over Elon Musk' 02:53 Now playing - Source: CNN See More Videos CNN — The White House, through an outside event production company called Harbinger, is soliciting corporate sponsors for this year’s Easter Egg Roll, which is prompting major concerns from ethics experts and shock from former White House officials from both parties. The sponsorship offers range from $75,000 to $200,000, with the promise of logo and branding opportunities, according to a nine-page document sent to potential sponsors and obtained by CNN. The Egg Roll, which began during the Rutherford B. Hayes administration in 1878, has long been privately funded without taxpayer dollars, largely through the American Egg Board, which also provides tens of thousands of eggs for the occasion. And all money raised by Harbinger will go to the White House Historical Association. But the solicitation for sponsorships marks an unprecedented offering of corporate branding opportunities on White House grounds running counter to long-established regulations prohibiting the use of public office for private gain. “This is an enterprise. This is not your grandmother’s Easter Egg Roll where people lined up outside the gate and go and roll an egg and get a little gift bag and walk out,” said a former official involved in planning the event, which has cost hundreds of thousands of dollars in recent years. The pitch document laying out sponsorship opportunities includes logos for both the White House and Harbinger, which previously produced the event during President Donald Trump’s first term and is offering “initial planning” and “event day execution” for sponsors that sign on. It features imagery of Trump, first lady Melania Trump, members of the Trump family, the Easter Bunny, and the White House press corps, including CNN correspondent Kaitlan Collins. “Sponsors of WHEER [White House Easter Egg Roll] provide financial support, activities, and giveaways to enhance the event while gaining valuable brand visibility and national recognition,” reads the document. Guests participate in the annual White House Easter Egg Roll on the South Lawn of the White House. Kent Nishimura/Getty Images/File Among the offerings for prospective sponsors: “Naming rights for key areas or elements,” “Sponsor logos featured on event signage,” “Custom-branded baskets, snacks/beverages, or souvenirs,” “Mentions in official event communications and social media posts,” “Acknowledgment in printed or digital event programs,” and “Inclusion in press releases and media interviews.” Sponsors can also gain access to an “invite-only brunch hosted inside the White House by FLOTUS,” tickets to the event, and a private White House tour. Upon viewing the pitch document, Richard Painter, who served in the White House Counsel’s Office under President George W. Bush, told CNN that it “wouldn’t have gotten through Counsel’s Office.” “That would have been vetoed in about 30 seconds in my day,” he said. “We’re not running this like a football stadium where you get all logos all over the place for kicking in money.” It’s not the first time the Trump White House has openly flouted norms and rules from the South Lawn. Earlier this month, the president touted a selection of Tesla vehicles accompanied by the company’s CEO Elon Musk. In 2020, the Republican National Convention was held in part on the grounds. President Donald Trump and Elon Musk deliver remarks next to a Tesla Model S on the South Lawn of the White House on March 11, 2025. Andrew Harnik/Getty Images North America/Getty Images All money raised by Harbinger’s efforts will be placed into an account run by the White House Historical Association, a private nonprofit organization. “For many presidencies, the White House Historical Association has collaborated with White House staff to facilitate a public gathering such as the annual White House Easter Egg Roll. And as we do with other gifts to the White House collection, we receive contributions and in-kind gifts that are used on the grounds that day,” the association’s president, Stewart McLaurin, told CNN. It’s not unusual for a production company like Harbinger to be involved. The company, founded by former Mitt Romney campaign staffers in 2013, has produced large-scale corporate and government events, including Egg Rolls during Trump’s first term, March for Our Lives, media spin rooms at presidential debates, and Pope Francis’ 2015 visit to the US. “There is a certain level of expectation by the public that these be amazingly grand affairs – memorable affairs – and every year, you try and top it with something new and different. But to do that, clearly, you need professional production companies. It’s beyond the White House Visitor’s Office and their little team of six people,” the former official involved in planning the event said. Private contributions cover activity booths, artists, music, vendors, staging, equipment and décor, said a source familiar with the planning who was granted anonymity to detail specifics of the funding mechanisms. Any excess funding raised, that source said, will go toward other similar White House events, such as Halloween festivities and the Fourth of July. So far, one sponsor has been identified for the April 21 event, with other “successful conversations” underway, according to the source, who noted that the National Park Service, which oversees White House grounds, will be responsible for vetting prospective donors before gifts are accepted. The White House, the office of the first lady, Harbinger, the National Park Service and the National Park Foundation did not respond to CNN’s requests for comment. In the past, according to another official involved in the planning of previous Egg Rolls, there was an agreement on reimbursement for the event’s cost between the National Park Service, the American Egg Board, the White House Historical Association and the White House. There have also been smaller-scale partnerships with organizations like NASA, the LEGO Foundation, and Disney. But any branding, the source said, was extremely limited due to severe constraints from the White House counsel’s office. Asked for comment, a spokesperson for the American Egg Board told CNN that it plans to be involved in the Egg Roll this year. “The specific details are being finalized now with the White House,” the spokesperson said, adding that details of the board’s partnership with the White House “are not shared publicly.” It is unclear what social media channels would be used for the promised “mentions in official event communications and social media posts,” and whether they would be sent from official White House accounts. It’s also unclear whether the White House Counsel’s Office signed off on the solicitation document. Painter argued the move runs counter to free enterprise. The Trump administration, he said, “just have a different attitude… that ‘America First’ somehow requires the United States to pick winners and losers in the private sector.” Donald Sherman, the chief counsel and executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW), said he had “never seen anything like this before” associated with a White House. “I understand that there are corporate sponsors for the Easter Egg Roll,” Sherman told CNN. “What I have not seen before is sort of the outright solicitation and the use of the imprimatur of the White House to give corporate sponsorship.” Previous egg rolls have been a source of tension between those involved with planning and the Counsel’s Office. Multiple administrations had to tell Coca-Cola that thousands of Dasani water bottles donated for the event could not be served in Coke-branded coolers, for instance, because of the branding restrictions placed by the White House lawyers. “I’m getting agita thinking of the conversations I used to have with the Counsel’s Office,” said the first former official involved in planning the event. “Sometimes it went too far – yeah – but their goal is to protect the president.” Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom US Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2025 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Nightcap Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Football Tennis Golf Motorsport US Sports Olympics Climbing Esports Hockey Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Features As Equals Call to Earth Freedom Project Impact Your World Inside Africa CNN Heroes Watch Live TV CNN Fast Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts Games Daily Crossword Jumble Crossword Sudoblock Sudoku 5 Things Quiz About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Politics Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Politics Subscribe Sign in My Account Settings Newsletters Topics you follow Sign out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.